Nonabelian Gauge
----------------

0th model of nonableian gauge = multiple unitenracting maxwell fields.
Could occur in replica method?

The extension of the toric code model of kitaev

Duality - clearly related the the P-A-a correspondece. and also related
to . What is dual wavefunction? Is it berezinski wavefunction for A?

Singular gauge transfromation. In places with no flux, we can gauge
transform away the entire vector potentil and collect it into singular
objects. We can do this for EM $A=\hat{\theta}$, if we use a gauge
function like $\Lambda=\theta$. A goes away except at the mutlivalued
position $2\pi,0$ .x\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|\|x A flux and an
antiflux in a grid model in 2d. The string that connects them is a
$U_{ij}=fluxvalue$. Any loop that doesn't incircle the ends will get a
matchnig number of . If need be loop can go off to infinity, but then
cannot change direction it goes off to infinty. Nonabelian magnetization
potentials describe objects whose wavefunction is degenrate for fixed
positions. Hence when we compress down to charge level $\rho$, $\rho$
becomes a matrix that must be parallel transported.
$\rho=\nabla\cdot P$?, where P is also a matrix
$\rho=\nabla\cdot P+[P,P]$. This would better match duality. The extra
term is from the same place as for the vector potential.

Duality - E can come from 2 potentials. a scalar or vector. I vaguely
remember that putting some delta functions in there you could come up
with a symmettric form for the path integral

Charge as representation. Durring a blocking transfromation, what
happens to the charge? We combine the tensor porduct of the field
operators at the posiiont within the block. They'll split up into
irreducible representaitons. To make the cat chase its tale, you'll have
to pick/trace over the density matrices you don't need or want and
return to the preresentation you started with. The way the field scales
will depend on the number of irreducible reps that match. And you'll do
this trace inexactly in practice.

In context of ehrenfest theorem, I think the following equations for
motion in a external gauge field make sense.

$m\ddot{x}=\dot{x}Tr(\rho F)$

$\dot{\rho}=\dot{x}[A,\rho]\rightarrow\frac{d}{ds}\rho=0$

This mixes quantum and classical in a manner I am sligthly (although not
entirely) unconnfortable with.

We can do better path integral if we use coherent states of spin for the
density matrix. This would make more and more sense for larger spin,
meaning larger reps, meaning many many particles making up the
composite.

The irreducible representation proptions remain fixed as A never
transfers between them. In this sense the representation (porjecting out
the portion in that rep) is a conserved charge.

Combining flux. consider the wilson loop around each. What are the
possible values of wilson loops around the combo. It will be the product
in either order (which differes by gauge? $ab=a^{-1}aba=ba$) of them
individually. Value of wilson loop operator gets gauge changed depending
on where you start it. Trace is gauge invariant.

What takes the place of linear superposition for nonableian fields? We
can talk about linear superposition of potential, flux, charge, etc.
Need to define what that means. For example, given flux in one region
that gives A, and fluxin a hoter that comes from A2, what is the total
vector potential A3 that will describle both?

Multipole expansions. (and mutipole addition rules. operator porduct
expansions? We don't even know how to combine chazrge yet though, which
is utterly trivial in abelian case). Do multipole expansions require
notion of charge generating field? multipole expansion of flux
generating A?

Integrating nonableian charge makes no sense? Maybe we do need to work
with QFT to do this.

The gibbs principle, the principle of virtual subdivision. We can
consider any charge or flux to be a composite charge or flux if useful
for discussion (and once we have addition laws).

Empty space solutions (solution for laplace rather than poisson) on
strange cutup domains. Could give reason fr using conformal field
theory. Generalize the conformal method for maxwell to nonabelian case.
Gives lines of force (flux counters) and E field.

Nonabelian continuity equation $D_{\nu}j^{\nu}=0$

Nonableian duality

Noableian CIRCUITS. daaaaaammn that'd be cool.

Lie lagebras have a metric $Tr(T^{a}T^{b}).$ Basis dependant. Operator
Basis transfromation $T^{a'}=A_{a}^{a'}T^{a}$. Note how various
quantites change under this. Upsatirs and downastaris mean something.
sutrcture conanstants get 2 factor of A and 1 factor of A\^-1.

The $\Gamma$ christoffel symbo considered as a matrix with one index is
most similar to A. The ucurvature as a matrix valued form is the analog
of the F (see MTW).

### composition of chsarge

Add up lorentz force laws? consider bound states and find effective
equations of motion. Forces add because momentum add.

Coupling constant as disctinct from charge.

Dirac monopole quantization. Winding number of phase is integer. This
allows charge e, 2e, 3e, -e, etc .

### BdG p+ip

SOmething magenticy + something superocudcty

$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
v & \Delta e^{i\phi}\\
\Delta e^{-i\phi} & -v
\end{array}\right].$If we rotate $\Delta e^{i\phi}$ around a full phase
th bDG spinor gets a minus sign.

Classical London equations (can I derive london equations from BdG?).
Maybe include a hall current term. WOuld the classical london equations
be nonableian?

Solution of plane wave phase supercoucting paramter is a very useful
solution to have in back pocket. $E=\pm\sqrt{V^{2}+\Delta^{2}}$

Synchornization of turning (cyclotron motion) and flipping
(supercondcutor motion).

Swirling vortcies pulsing in and out. The relative phase between them
could be a kinf of berry phase as I wind their locations aorund one
another. I can arbitrarily pair them souch that I say one is deplting to
fill the other.

The polarization string connecting thwo flux charge composite gains a
harmonic time dependance. This polarization is a dirac fermion? The
polarization string is bth a potential for charge and flux if forming
compisite particles. At the same time, is there a wavefunction like
object experiencing this polarzation/potential? Is that the majorana
field?

self driven drift velcotity? supercoducting E field makes hall current
flow.

In some snese the p+ip is similar to a vector porential term. and
including only those derivatives feels like restirction to LLL.

### bosonization

Polarizarization operator similar to denisty operator.
$P(r)=\sum\frac{\hat{r}}{r-r_{i}}=\sum\frac{1}{z-z_{i}}$. In second
qwautized langauge
$P(r)=\int\psi^{\dagger}(r')\frac{1}{r-r'}\psi(r')dr'$. THis is for
inifnitely far boundary conditions. If we prescribe P on finite
boundary, use another green's function. $\nabla\cdot P=\rho$ is exactly
the coulomb equations (gauss's law). Likewise for M. $M=\sum$.

If P comes from potential $\phi$, then $P=\nabla\phi=$.
$\phi=\sum_{i}\ln(z-z_{i})$. This is exactly the operastor that puts
$e^{\phi}$puts an exictation onto a droplet. A factor of i may occur if
we use twisted P. $\epsilon P$.

Commutator of $\phi=\int\psi^{\dagger}\ln(z-z')\psi dz'$

$\phi(k)$.
$\phi_{m}(r)=\mbox{\ensuremath{\int}d\ensuremath{\theta}}e^{im\theta}\phi$.

COnsider chain with coordinates $x_{i}$$y_{i}$. Put in magentic fieldand
drift cause electric field + springs between (or bind y direction with
potential $\frac{1}{2}ky^{2}$

$L=\frac{1}{2}m\dot{x}^{2}+\frac{1}{2}m\dot{y}^{2}+By\dot{x}+Ey+\frac{1}{2}\alpha(x_{1}-x_{2})^{2}$.

We can solve this exactly. Should give bosonic edge equations.

weak Localization = supercoudctivty $<\psi\psi>\ne0$.

first quantized replica wavefucntion? Variational principle

Renormalization as block diagonlaization. Figure out transfromation
order by order. FIeld perspective is that you want fields that only
possess small k in one block( all states
$a^{\dagger}a^{\dagger}a^{\dagger}a^{\dagger}|0>$where each creation has
k below cutoff threshold). Then the much bigger block is those modes
that possess large and small k.

The particle persective is that the block is single particle block and
other blocks are many particle block. Green's function is $H_{eff}^{-1}$
after you've block diagonalizaed to that order.
