Majorana Fermions.

Particle oncensrving:

One satndpoint: just easier

Another standpoint: coherence between particles inside and outside
system. Grand canonical exchaneg of pairtlces with resevroir.

Josephson junctions

The classical hall effect.

Curious

Define $\psi=E_{x}+iE_{y}$

Ordinary EM equations + hall current

$i\partial_{t}\psi=\frac{1}{\sigma}\nabla^{2}\psi$

Spinning waves

Intepret this as photon equations of motion

Include higgs mass term?

The divergence of E=0 constraint is a cauchy riemann condition on
$\bar{\partial}\psi=0$. So the function must be analytic.

Induce effecyive vector potential? I don't see how. currents are source
terms\... Well maybe the curvature source terms for the laplacian? Not
really a laplacian. Its a double curl.

Because E is actually a vector, it will couple to curvature via regular
parallel transport. $\Gamma$. If we maintain an orthonormal basis, then
just rotation, leading to effective vector potential terms.

Weak curvative will apear as an vector optnetial term, but the vector
potential gets smaller as the object gets bigger. Unless a more careful
analysis says this gets cancelled out, we can't associate it with this
kind of shift type calulcation.

Quantization is a coherent state occupations of these modes? If we
restrict just to them, then the occuspation of all zero modes is the
state space n1,n2,n3, etc. If zero modes (undetermined so far). then

We seem to be missing some hbars

Space time curl of A = B/E

So E and B are associated with spacetime and space loops or plaquettes.

The divergence free nature of B immediately follows? It should. Don't
quite see it at the moment\.... Seems more like
$\partial_{t}B=\nabla\times E$ immediately follows from the curface
integral of a spacetime box. Well, since B doesn't have components, I
guess the divergence of B is not meaningful in 2+1

Via Hodge duality, we can relate faces uniquely to edges of the dual
lattice. The edges are the normal vectors to the faces. volumes to
vertices and vertices to volumes.

B becomes $B_{t}$, and E gets Ex Ey

Perhaps we could transmute the photons into electrons.

$\nabla\times H$

$\nabla\times(B+\chi B)$

That's baout as close to a vector potenital as i can figure. Duality
says that magnetization and polairzation should be vector potentials for
the vortices. Maybe we need the higgs mass term.

Regardless, the analogy, even if it isn't deep, tells us about the
nature of waves riding on a hall effect.

Good questions:

Is what is important about topological materials the transitions between
them or is the bulk interesting too?

Fractional Charge:

Polarization response to external charge. Maybe

The flow of vacuums / filled bands.

FLuctuations are small.

Compare with the case of a particle on 3 sites. aveage charge on a site
is 1/3. Fluctations are huge.

But the polarization response is fractional. Why? Quantum mechanics.
What is the bohr sommefeld at play. Because we want an integer number of
these things to be and integer numer of ordinary charges.

Intrinsically many body. Why?

Topological charge. Vortcies add together. Winding numbers add.
Skyrmions and liquid crsytals. Combing balls. The finite energy
condition -\> closing of domain and restirction of what can be doing at
infninity. For sigma model, must become stationary. For gauge model,
field has to be gauge transform equivlaent to nothing energy.

Dimer models.

The old idea of renormalization and chern simons type stuff. scaling out
and snuffing combos of spin that go greaer than fixed amount. Add in
term proptional to toal spin and energy gap it out.

Constraint of sums over all spins is less than some value = chern simons
theory? All loops perhaps. This vastly reduces the effective degrees of
freedom. So many constraints. If it's even possible at all.

It is not clear what time reversal does in a wannier basis. K space
seems straghtforward. Regular lattice seems straightforward. I believe
the claim is that the wannier edge states at the opposite ends of a
chian are the time reversal of each other? Wannier states are defined in
a rather roundabout way. We start with the regular old position basis.
Then we transform into k space. Then we rearrange in k space, then we
trasnfrom back. Depending on out definitions of phases in k-space, we
may shift the wannier basis from where we'd espect it to be. If the
thing were truly on a loop, then the two ends would be right next to one
another, but now it isn't. Yes. I believe it is possible for the two
ends to be kramers pairs of each other.

THIS IS ALL SUPER INCORRECT. \<x\> can't change. Clearly this cannot
happen. It's counterintuitive because its wrong.

How about this. Before the transfromation, the state is invariant under
time reveral. Then after pumping, it is now has a pair state with spins
flipped at each end.

Kramers degenracy makes it so the lowe band needs to be equally up and
down. Filling the band makes spin add up to 0? kramers pair buddo add up
to 0, then they all add. Twsiting something makes local spin 1/2 moments
appear at each end, that are correlated and opposite. (because each
kramer's pair is in singlet) but now they're localized.

The wannier basis is what is needed to go into a real space low energy
effective thoery blurring out the lattice.

Suppose we redfined our position basis with a simple phase factor
overlay. Then time reversal is no longer a simple complex conjugattion
of coefficients, it also is a double phase shift.

Suppose we redfine our position basis with a twisting of spin. Now time
reversal needs to anti twist the spin doubly.

Time reversal on dimers. If they are real dimers, they stay the same.
But complex dimers flip with each other perfectly under time reversal.
$|a>\pm i|b>$. Combine this with the slow spin shift?

Also could consider a dimerized spin redfinition. Kind of like
antiferromagetism

Can we see this without going to k space? Two p orbitals. They are time
reversal of one another. They could be oppositely shifted by some
perturbation.

The same could be said for particle hole conjugacy. The particle hole
conjugate of a deleted state at the end may be an added particle at the
other end.

Time reversal polarization \~ Sz polarization. It is if Sz is conserved.
But it isn't. But something else is. If a denisty and current are
defined in terms of a polarization, they are automatically conserved.
This polarization (which is gauge field like) could take values on Z2.
$e^{iP}$. No local expression for the charge? We haven't tried very
hard.
