Two time prbability density as porbability transfer matrix. Current is
differential probability transfer matrix per unit time. current denisty
is that divided per subspace size.

Where does volterra form appear matrix wise?

$$\psi=\psi_{0}+G(V\psi+j)$$

This is the canonical form is inhomohgenous boundary conditions.

$$L(\psi-\psi_{0})=j$$

is homogenous form.

Why not have over specified functions? could put given calues of psi
rgiht in the middle

Or how to put the kirkhoff diffraction formula into clean matrix form

I don't want sources (although I could use effective sources) to deal
with scattering,

Black body radiation is classic noneuqilbirum green's function problem.
Start with hot source (planck distirbution), couple to external world
via emissivity and absortivity constants $ef(\omega)=a$ is detailed
balance (equivalent of resoir couplings in Datta) , kirkhoff's law. Then
propagation uysing ordinary light proopgation equations. Then maybe
absorption onto a colder body. Any

Cittert van zenrike. What is equivlaent for quantum mechanics? off
diagonals of density matrix?

density matrix for sources, is good enough if gaussian distrbuted to
describe. Also assuming average of j is zero.

$$<j(x,\omega)^{\dagger}j(y,\omega')>$$

We are using the analytic extension of the j in time (Where we slice off
half of the spectrum in fourier space or we hilbert transfrom in real
space)

Leads to expression for fields

$$\phi=Gj$$

$$G\approx\frac{e^{ikr}}{r}$$

$$\phi^{\dagger}(x)\phi(y)=G^{\dagger}j^{\dagger}jG$$

If j are not correlated then deenisgy matrix is diagonal in space. But
so is potential scattering $V(x)$

The first term in Born scattering is

$$GVG$$

You can see the similarity

Hence the correlation function fr the field is the fourier transform of
the intensity distribution, with the difference in k vector thats points
from the two location to the source is used. if we look at x-y, we get
that the intesnity is just the integral of the source intesnity deivided
by r\^2.

Now, what does the correaltion mean? If we perform some sort of
diffraciton experiment using these sources, it will be a linear fu
nctiopn fof the light incoming on the slits. Hence the intesnity on the
screen will include the correlatiopn function term.

Kirkhoff

Even simpler aplication is schur complement is damped harmonic
oscillator.

Time independant path integral?

Feynman diagrams as matrix porduct notation.

For time depednant application of block matrix ideas, we need to exmaine
the single block form of

$(I+H)^{N}$

I

$A$

$A^{2}+BC$

$A^{3}+BDC+BCA+ABC$

$A^{4}+BCBC+BD^{2}C+BCA^{2}+A^{2}BC+ABCA+BDCA+ABDC$ at this point, we've
introduced most novel terms I think

The goal is to write the time evolution of the returny parts without
claculating all the bull of the subspace we're unieterested in

$$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
dtH-I & I\\
 & dtH-I & I\\
 &  & dtH-I & I\\
 &  &  & dtH-I\\
\\
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{0}\\
\psi_{1}\\
\psi_{2}\\
\psi_{3}\\
\psi_{4}
\end{array}\right]=0$$

$$\left[\begin{array}{ccccc}
I\\
dtH-I & I\\
 & dtH-I & I\\
 &  & dtH-I & I\\
 &  &  & dtH-I & I
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{0}\\
\psi_{1}\\
\psi_{2}\\
\psi_{3}\\
\psi_{4}
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{0}\\
0\\
0\\
0\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

removing dependnace ought ot remain upper traingular but no longer
bidiagonal.

$$\left[\begin{array}{cccccc}
I\\
A-I & I &  & B\\
 & A-I & I &  & B\\
 &  &  & I\\
C &  &  & D-I & I\\
 & C &  &  & D-I & I
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{0I}\\
\psi_{1I}\\
\psi_{2I}\\
\psi_{0II}\\
\psi_{1II}\\
\psi_{2II}
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{0I}\\
0\\
0\\
0\\
0\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$

So there are four blocks. The uninteracting evolution blocks of A and B,
E(A) and then the coupling shift blocks C and B. S(B)

Hence, schur complement

$$E(A)-S(B)E(D)^{-1}S(C)$$

Suppose D was zero. Then $A^{N}=$

Recursion

$$H^{N+1}|_{A}=H*H^{N}|_{A}$$

Taking some kron-vecs on the block level.

$$H\otimes Ivec(H^{N})$$

$$\left[\begin{array}{c}
H_{A}^{N+1}\\
H_{B}^{N+1}\\
H_{C}^{N+1}\\
H_{D}^{N+1}
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cccc}
A & 0 & B & 0\\
0 & 0 & A & B\\
C & D & 0 & 0\\
0 & C & 0 & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
H_{A}^{N}\\
H_{B}^{N}\\
H_{C}^{N}\\
H_{D}^{N}
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\frac{1}{A+BD^{-1}C}H^{N+1}|_{A}=H^{N}|_{A}$$

Perhaps ssomething in between these two equations. Some blokcs on one
side, some on the other.

$$H^{N}|_{A}=(\frac{1}{A+BD^{-1}C})^{-N}$$

This might be a fast matrix multiply formula, if you only want a small
subspace. Okay. Not true. Check first couple cases. They don't fit. I
think I'm on the right track but missing terms. Do schur complment more
carefully.

$$H^{N}=(\frac{1}{H^{N}})^{-1}$$

n the face of it, this is fucking reidculuous. To invert, then multiply,
then invert again. Oy vey.

What about schur is LU

$$L^{-1}H^{N+1}|_{A}=UH^{N}|_{A}$$

$$H^{N}=L(UL)^{N-1}U$$

Which we can do easily with all blocks at once.

$$\sum z^{N}H^{N}=\frac{1}{1-Hz}$$

$$\sum z^{-N}H^{-N}=\frac{1}{1-\frac{1}{Hz}}$$

Does the block extraction ooeprator $|_{A}$ commute with the series?
Block extraction can be written as $P_{I}^{T}HP_{II}$ if that helps.

The schur complement is the genersting function of this sequence by z
transform ( or something like that). What are generating functions of
other blocks.

$$=\frac{1}{A-z+B(D-z)^{-1}C}$$

Off diagonal blocks are similar

$$(I+H)^{N}\rightarrow(I+A+B(\frac{1}{I-D})C)^{N}$$

$$\frac{1}{I-H}=\frac{1}{I-A+B(\frac{1}{I-D})C}$$

if wecollect all the foray's into D space.

$e^{H}$ This one is porbabnly the most importyant one

$I+H+1/2!H^{2}+1/3!H^{3}+...$

Every single time you have a hcoice of A B C or D. e is the sum of all
choices of all lengths.

$e^{H}=e^{A}e^{A+BDC}$

$e^{H}=e^{A}e^{A+Be^{D}C}$

$e^{H}\rightarrow e^{A+Be^{D}C}$

Suppose either B or C is zero. How does this reduce

if C is zero (the loss term from A, meaning we haveinjection only)

$$e^{A}(I+Be^{D})$$

$$\frac{B}{I+e^{-D}}$$

Some logarithms or something? (Taking my cue from effective action
looking things.) WOuldn't that be a peach. It kind of has to be true.
We've well established that renomrmalization is some kind of schur
compelment thing. Path integral is just way of doing complicated matrix
expoentials ( time depdnant usually). Currently wer are considering time
indepdnant alhotugh may have more of flavor of time depednant since so
fancy. In some sense, what we're doing is doing the fast integrals in
the path integral and only worrying about the slow to slow ones.

$$e^{A+\ln(Be^{D}C)}$$

$$\ln e^{A}+Be^{D}C$$

BDC is worth at least 3 applications. Whereas A only counts for 1. If we
put a parameter $e^{tH}$then BDC is at least t\^3. Wait. There are also
injection terms. B, BD, etc. BDC is radiate and return. B BD BD\^2 etc
are start outswide and come inside terms, i.e. incoming terms, input
terms.

$\partial_{t}e^{tH}=He^{tH}$

$e^{tH}=I+\int dt'He^{t'H}$

If a closed form exists, it must match the closed form of the spinor
case, since scalars are acceptable blocks.

The laplace transfrom ought ot give the schur complement.

$$e^{tH}|_{A}=\int e^{st}\frac{1}{A-s+B(D-s)^{-1}C}$$

Goal: Write lower block of e\^H in terms of the block matrcies of H.
Reminds me of that fast mulktiplication algorithm alctually.

Maybe the blocks of e\^h are the wrong hting to look at? subspace
trasnfer matrices. No. that would be the right things.

We already have looked at Det, Tr, and $H^{-1}$. And they are nontrviial
and interesting What other matrix ops?

$\ln H$, $[,H]$

Obvisouly, a bit of wave can leave the system and then bounce back in.
If we can presolve the external parts ecause simple, we doin good.

Somewhere I wrote boaut how the time depdnant boundary conditions must
be integral formula over all times on the obundary. Where and why did
that come up?

The leave forever is decay, the leave and bounce back is self energy.
Something with a lot of bounce back = (resonance)

The schur complement ideas and the kronecker ideas need to be fused
somehow. schur is working in a 2x2 times anything case sort of.

One has to be as careful going to block matrix from matrix as from
scalar to matrix.

$I=P_{I}^{T}P_{I}+P_{II}^{T}P_{II}$

We can treat subspaces like vectors (well vectors are subapces, so any
forumla that works for arbitrary susbapces will have a ocunterpart that
works for vectors)?

The amount that the subspaces straddle eigenvectors is important. Since
eigenvector replenishes itself, only consdierign D-\>D or A-\>A will
decrease, since we need D-\>A and A-\>D to get full.

Since the blocking form can be used for pertubation theory (using the
residual as a block and saying the residual is the pertubative term).
One would anticipate that any closed form of block expotential will also
be a closed form of perturbation thoery.

Block Hamilton Caylet- The various blocks of H\^N are doing very similar
things. It is circularly swirling between blocks A -\> C -\> D -\> B
-\>A

Hence I antincipate that the blocks possibly be written asa two term
recurrence relation

$$H^{N}|_{A}=XH^{N-1}|_{A}+YH^{N-2}|_{A}$$

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]$$

$$LULU=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
AA+BC & AB+BD\\
CA+DC & CB+DD
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
AA+BC & AB+BD\\
CA+DC & CB+DD
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
AAA+ABC+BCA+BDC & AAB+ABD+BCB+BDD\\
CAA+CBC+DCA+DDC & CAB+CBD+CCB+DDD
\end{array}\right]$$

$M^{2}-MtrM+IdetM=0$

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & 0\\
0 & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & 0\\
0 & D
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & 0\\
0 & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
AA & AB\\
DC & DD
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & 0\\
0 & D
\end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & 0\\
0 & D
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{cc}
A & B\\
C & D
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
AA & BD\\
CA & DD
\end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{cc}
AA & AB\\
DC & DD
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
2AA & BD+AB\\
CA+DC & 2DD
\end{array}\right]$$

$$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
2AA & BD+AB\\
CA+DC & 2DD
\end{array}\right]+\left[\begin{array}{cc}
BC-AA & 0\\
0 & CB-DD
\end{array}\right]$$

Time equation

$$\partial_{t}\psi=H\psi$$

$$\partial_{t}u=Au+B(t)\int_{0}^{t}e^{(t-t')D}Cu(t')dt'$$

Undo the s-domain schur complement L equation to get this

$$u_{n+1}=Hu_{n}$$

$$u_{n+1}=Au_{n}+B\sum_{k=0}^{n-2}D^{k}Cu_{k}$$

This can be gotten at by schur complementing the full matrix

$$\left[\begin{array}{cccccc}
I\\
A-I & I &  & B\\
 & A-I & I &  & B\\
 &  &  & I\\
C &  &  & D-I & I\\
 & C &  &  & D-I & I
\end{array}\right]\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{0I}\\
\psi_{1I}\\
\psi_{2I}\\
\psi_{0II}\\
\psi_{1II}\\
\psi_{2II}
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{c}
\psi_{0I}\\
0\\
0\\
0\\
0\\
0
\end{array}\right]$$
