Toplogical Insulators and such
==============================

The Gauss-Bonnet Thoerem - Integrate gaussian curvature

Gauss bonnet involves the gauss map, which is mapping of surface normal
to sphere.

Energy band diagrams are not everything. They do not tell you the entire
hamiltonian

Two hamiltonians can be smoothly transitioned to one another if smooth
parametization exists $H(k,k,0)\rightarrow H(k,k,1)$ with no
degenracies. Degenreacies are kind of like pinching an object.

For a single band the hamiltonian is a single real number. Some form of
gauss bonnet may be applicable

For two bands, the hamiltonian is a hermitian matrix.

We can also consider the eigenvector mapping $\zeta_{i}(k,k)$ with
arbtrary overall phase at any location. The eiegevnector is two complex
numbers for two bands. The gauss bonnet involves a real vector at each
spot.

Toplogical insulators: the two bands occur because of spin. but they are
nondegernate because of spin orbit coupling (making certain spin
orientations energetically preferable for certain wavevectors). These
two bands are tied to each other at dirac points, due to time reversal
symmettry. k=0 and the corners and the on axis edges of the brilluin
zone. 4 points in total in 2d. This tying is funny. It feels like

The cruvature 2-form. Given two vectors, which represent the loop that
you traversed, it will output an operator that will rotate the vector
(or matrix or or lie algebra or whatever) you parallel transported
$\partial v=Av$ or $\partial v=\Gamma v$. In index format this then has
4 indcies. Two belong to the manifold and 2 belong to the bundle space.

$\det(\frac{t\Omega}{2\pi i}+I)$ expanded into a power series in t. The
dterminant is acting on the output space I think?

Spin orbit cooupling shift spin spectrums in opposite k directions
because spin acts as a vector potential of opposite value for each spin.
This leads to shifted rashba cones. $(p-\sigma\times E)^{2}$. This is a
funny kind of dual. Its sort of dualling in 3d taking E to B, then going
down into 2d.

The band structure for spins is tied in funny topological ways. It feels
like the tying of a sphere to get the porjective plane. Because of
kramers degeneracy (which is not including a spin dependant interaction
is just a weak version of the degernacy of spin) the bands for two spins
are tied at special dirac points. Taking a non spin dependant band, we
can turn on a spin interaction, which will distort (the distortions will
also have symmettry) and slide in opposite directions the two bands. The
two spin bands will NEVER have a gap and therefore should be consiered
to be one band in a sense.

We need two bands to demostrate chern numbers. In this case because spin
bands are really one band, we need four surfaces in our band strcture.

Put on honeycomb?
