Confromal field thoery - $e^{i\phi}$shows up as Lie gorup corresponding
to Lie algebra. The operators atv single poiunt are representation of
Lie algebra.

Another suggestion for bootstrapping myself in. Consider finite quantum
spin chain. Maybe two spins. Then look at ward identities.

Interpolation in QFT. work with finite field hilbert space, but allow
coordinates to be continuous via interpolation.

$\phi(z)=\sum\phi_{i}f_{i}(z)$.

If you have a thoery linear in velocity $L=v\dot{q}+A\dot{q}+V(x)$, AND
we're in 2d we can find gauge that $\partial_{t}\phi=V$,
$\partial_{x}\phi=A$.

Gauge condition $\partial_{t}A=\partial_{x}V$\... hmm maybe that isn't a
good gauge condition? Isn't that E=0?

If so lagrangian and action is total derivative
$\int Ldt=\phi(b)-\phi(a)$. Wait. isn't lagnagrangian unspecified up to
total derivatives? Isn't the gauge transfromation of that form? it
results in a total derivagtive term. Bohm Ahanrnoc effect can be written
in those terms but it requires multivaluedness. Maybe if I put the
branch cut along the path, then it won't ever cross them since they are
one way. $\phi(z)$=$\phi(x+vt)$. $\int Ldz$. Yes. the bosonization
formula looks like how the green's function transfroms under gauge
transformation.

To say that the bosonization formula works may be equivaent to saying
the lagrangian is a total derivative.

Well classically something that has linear in velicty has no dynamics
really.

$<\psi\psi^{\dagger}>=e^{i\phi(b)}e^{-i\phi(a)}$.

Now if we make $\phi$ random or quantum we have to integrate this
expression.

$L=\psi\psi+\psi\psi\psi\psi$

Hubbard strat to decouple

$L=\psi\psi+\psi\psi\partial\phi+\partial\phi\partial\phi$

Do $\psi$ integral $G=e^{i\phi(b)}e^{-i\phi(a)}$

$L=\partial\phi e^{i\phi(b)}e^{-i\phi(a)}\partial\phi+\partial\phi\partial\phi$

first term disappers as is total derivative.

Where is $\partial_{t}\phi$? How do I include statistics (Normal
ordering (not path integral friendly)? Point splitting?) Because even
free fermion field should accept this treatment?

Can I make a path integral that picks a sace direction as time and finds
correlators in an energy eigenstate? An anti wick rotation.
