Magnetization and polarization.

Missing from my chart of understanding of duality is what is the dual
friend of the wavefunction? The wavdfunction is central to discussions
of gauge, it squares to density and can give current, so it has lots of
connections to the other physical quantities.

Rasta says that I should consider polarization to be a more quantum
phenomenon intimately connected to quantum phase.

The strange wavefunctions occurring in BEC are the highest eiegenvalues,
the low-rank approximation of the single particle denisty matrix for
many bosons. $\rho\approx\psi^{\dagger}\psi$

Previous thoughts on definition of $\psi\approx\sqrt{\rho}e^{i\theta}.$
And then i can get a polarization operator by
$\hat{\rho}(x)=\sum\delta(x-\hat{x}_{i})$. This is an operator
parametzied by x that (can) acts in the ordinary fixed number of
particle schrodinger wavefunction hilbert space. It is not necessarily
working in the super huge dimensional QFT space (unless possibly if I
have infnite \# of particles. The exact connection between a qft and
finite number versions is cloudy for me). Then
$\hat{P}=\int dr'\frac{\vec{r}\rho(r')}{(r-r')3}$, using coulomb's law
essentially. This is a quantum mechanical operator that is the
polarization of the system in the sense that $\nabla\cdot P=\rho$.

Similarly I believe I should be able to constrcut a doubly parametrized
operator that is in a sense the single particle density matrix

$\rho(x',x)=\sum_{i}e^{ip_{i}(x-x')}\delta(x-x_{i})$

There seems to be a good connection $x\leftrightarrow x'$ and complex
conjugation/hermitian conjugation, even though this form looks ugly and
goofy. Does foureir transforomation do what it should? Obviously x-x'=0
reduces to ordinary density.

$\rho(R,r)=\sum e^{ipr}\delta(R-x_{i})$

$j=\partial_{r}\rho(R,r)$ is current matrix?

New thinking is that maybe I want a density matrix type of P or M, then
I can SVD that to get the dual wavefunction for vortices.

M ought to correspond to $\rho$ by duality.

suggesitons:

We could use internal r coordinate as if it were relative coordinates
around some constellation of charge.

M uses biot savart law

$M=r'\times\nabla-r\times\nabla'$

$M=\int r\times jdr$

$M=$

Changeing overall current by a velicty potential should be a gauge
transfromation on the magnetization/vortex wavefunction
$\chi=e^{i\phi}\chi$. j is the dual of the vector potential A.
