chern-simons 2-particle gauge transfromation. Chern simons has the form
of biot savart law. This is also the same thing we'd use for microscopic
M. if I had ever listened, supposedly this is the source of $a_{\mu}$
which I have associated with M and P.

The diagonal equations

$\int jdl=\int dAM$

$\int jdt=P$. j includes gauge term from multiparticle gauge
trnasformations.

$j=\int dx_{2}(\partial_{x_{2}}+\partial_{x_{1}})\Lambda$.

If i want the magnetization matrix with offdiagonal terms\...

$a_{\mu}=\partial_{\mu}\Lambda_{12}$ pure gauge, although may be
singular

ODLRO and or Large eiegnvalue in densiy matrix. We need to fill in hole
in the chart for what is the dual of the Wavefunction. The idea of
$\sqrt{\rho}e^{i\phi},$doesn't seem to give manageable. The related
ocnscturing of the SVD and or eiegnvalue decpomposiotnA wavefunction
$\rho(x,x')$

If we weave together essentially independant wavefunctions using
$e^{i\Lambda}$ how do we unweave?

$\int^{x}P\cdot n=\phi$. Flux is stream function/counting function/flux
function $\int Pn=totalQ$

Abelian = fragmented BEC state.

Off diagonal long range order: Not in single particle matrix. But if we
have The entire wavefunction, we can remove phase and show ODLRO in the
gauge transformed

$\rho_{1}=\sum\delta(x-x_{i})\rightarrow<e^{i\Lambda_{12}}\delta(x-x_{i})>$

The off diagonals of laughlin's plasma analogy

Consider laughlin wavefunction. Can be written as expontnial of
$\ln(z-z)$ which is also what occurs from correlator of bosonic field?

Plasma analogy becomes bosonic field

Measure problems. how to go from Fixed N $\frac{\ln(x_{1-x_{2}})}{}$ to
a conitnuum thoery of P

Correlators can be calculated in continuum limit

Higher types of gauge transfromation $\Lambda(\{x\})$. These will go
into the expression for current. Nothing wrong with doing any of them

Lower gauge types from higher - either fix some variables or integrate
out their flux. - similar to how we go from $\rho_{N}$to $\rho_{1}.$
Sectional curvature (curvature once we've frozen or integrated out
higher dimenions)

Many particle berry phase $\partial_{x}\rho(x,x')$?

$\int dr_{i}e^{\sum\frac{1}{r_{i}-r_{j}}}$ and either go to grand
conaconical are let N get very large, should transform into Lattice sets
that may have integer number of charges on each? Then we can do some
poisson sum trickery or something to go to a new set of variables that
are more continuos.

Polarizaton decoupling

$\int DPe^{\sum_{i}\int dr\frac{1}{r_{i}-r}\nabla\cdot P-P^{2}}$

Then some kind of mean field?
