Ward Identities
---------------

Ward identities tell you how to evaluate correlation functions involving
convserved quantities (currents resulting from symmettries). The are
related to noether's thoerem.

$\int[D\phi]e^{S}\rightarrow\int[D\phi]e^{S+\delta S}\approx\int[D\phi]\delta Se^{S}$

Then we can use similar tricks as in noether's thoerem.$<EqoM>=0$ allows
you to do a flip to collect as a current.

The question is $<\partial JOOOO>$ is not necessarily 0 since the O
operators might insert current into the regions (Is one possible way of
thinking about it). BUT, you can expand this because fo the symmettry of
the thoery into more stuff.

Ward identities are exact results of symmettry.

One would image they are cutch in evaluating expectations of the
form$<JJJJJJ>$, or perhaps current algebra $[J,J]$. In fact this may be
why current algebra takes a cetral role

Ward identties in the \<Exxxxpppp\> SHO expectations. The time
orderingchanges whether the E is evlauting before or after operators
changes energy, Hence even though d/dtE =0 the time ordered product does
not have this property.

OPE
---

Some suggestions for interpreation of OPE

OPE is closest thing to interacting Wick theorem. Wick theorem converts
time order to normal ordered (Or really any type of ordering to and
other type of ordering with suitably defined contraction)

OPE is also an alternative approach to equal time canconical commutation
relations. So in a sense one could define the thoery by defining them
first. The OPE gives sort of an analytic version of the delta function
that occurs when two fields hit the same spot.

Normal ordering is Free field concept. Normal Product is interacting
version.

Connection to Ward identities: Ward identities give OPE for currents.

$OO=\sum CO$ is reminscent of structure constants in lie algebra.
Proably not a coincidence. QFT on lattice is massive tensor product of
local hilbert spaces. $O_{i}(x)=O_{(xi)}$. Both indices are used to
specify the type of operator we are referring to. Consider
$\sigma_{x,y,z}$ at each location. These are a ocmplete set of Ops.

Original suggestion of OPE = multipole seems to be holding me back

OPE = compostie particle decompoisition also holding me back.

Some thoughts on charge
-----------------------

$\int D[\phi]e^{(\nabla\phi)^{2}+\rho\phi}$Thermal fluctating charged
fluid.

$<\phi\phi>=\frac{1}{r}$

Conserved quantity of gauge symmettry operation
$\phi\rightarrow\phi(x)+a(x)$ $\rho\rightarrow\rho+\nabla^{2}a$

$<\int E\cdot dS>=<Q>$ is some kind of conserved quantity. We can use
Ward identities (or similar thought processes of performing symmettry
transformition) to find correlations.

WHAT I actually want: How to apply the gauss integral tricks to find
stat or quant correlation functions. Via symmettry
$\int E\cdot dx=4\pi r^{2}E\cdot n$

Cosnder Two concentric spheres for the integrals
$<\int_{\Gamma_{1}}E\cdot dS\int_{\Gamma_{2}}E\cdot dS>$ via symmettry
?=$E_{1}E_{2}4\pi4\pi a^{2}b^{2}$. No. Not correct.

$<e^{\lambda Q}>$ as a generating function. This is where vertex
functions would occur.

Charge is uncorrelated unless overlapping? This seems unphysical.
Positive charge fluctations should correlate to nearby negative
lfuctuations to try to reduce energy.

Cutoff \<QQ\>=$\delta_{\Lambda}$. Method of cutoff seems like it
matters. That's bad/nonsensical. Renromalization of switching between
regularization schemes.
