More suggestions on Hall Effect
===============================

Dima has said that the laughlin state is beautfiul but over emphasized.
What is truly vital is topology. What do I know about topology in QHE?

1\. Degeneracy of ground state depends on torus. This can be coonnected
to fractional statistics via quasiparticle winding arguments. If has
nontrivial loops, we can travel to aother state by creating quasi and
anti quasia pairs and winding them around the nontrivial loops.

2\. TKNN Invariant. berry phase in crystals corresponds to anomlalous
velcoity due to movement in the periodic bloch function. Noncommutative
geometry paper gave suggestion on how to extend to non periodic crystal.

The berry phase that occrus from transporting in LLL is that of the
classical change of phase of internal cycltron motion as you classically
transport it. Same for TKNN invariant. Why quantized?

### Noncommutative

Things that coommute in big spaces do not have to commute porjected in
subspaces.

This tends to correspond to subtracting of internal motion (cycltron,
analogous velcotiy) such that x and p get mixed into a new x-like
object.

When working in

TO porject into LLL, write in terms of z $\bar{z}$, take all bars to the
left. then turn them into $\partial_{z}$. This can be done for any
funtion of $2x=z+\bar{z}$and $2iy=z-\bar{z}$

The coordinates kind of correspond to
$x\sim x\partial_{x}-\partial_{y}$, $y\sim y\partial_{y}+\partial_{x}$
in that differential Geometry kind of langauge.

How do we convert

We can phrase some energy band ideas in terms of projection operator of
that band (in particular the chern number). That is the essence of the
noncommutative IQHE paper.

We can make a noncummuative x by projecting it into the wannier basis
if.

HOW do we do electrostaitcs/ekectordynamics projected only within a
subspace. That is an axiom of the thoery the FQHE states, that we remain
within the first landau level (actually true? Who knows).

For external potentials, the new potentiasl operator is now only within
whatever subspace we'vve picked $P\phi P$. This means that in a sense,
potwntial at different positions may no long commute. A very useful
thing to consider is the potential due to a classical external charge.
It will be a useful solution for

Differentiation becomes $\partial_{y}\phi=i[X,\phi]$. Intergration
becomes $tr(P_{\Gamma}\phi)$ where $P_{\Gamma}\sim\int_{\Gamma}dV$ tells
us which states to trace over, which is similar to picking a domain to
intregrate over. Can we do line integrals? In 2d line integrals and
surface integrals are the same. Gauss theorem still sort of hold.

$tr(P_{\Gamma}[X+Y,\phi])=tr((X+Y)P_{\Gamma}\phi-\phi P_{\Gamma}(X+Y))$.
The only terms that will surivive are those that appreciably reach
across the boundary.$tr([X+Y,P_{\Gamma}]\phi)$.

Holomorphic and antihomlomorphic functions do not commute.

$\nabla\times\nabla=0$ might hold from jacbi identity
$[X,[Y,A]]-[Y,[X,A]]=[[X,Y],A]$. This works since \[X,Y\]=constant but
that might not always be true.

$\rho=\delta(\partial_{z}-\bar{z}_{0})\delta(z-z_{0})=\int d^{2}qe^{iq(\partial_{z}-z_{0})}e^{i\bar{q}(z-z_{0})}$.

$\ln(r)=\ln\bar{z}z$. I haven't (power series has mixed ordering) found
any way to make this obviously normal ordered. However can write in
fourier form
$\int\frac{d^{2}q}{q^{2}}e^{iq(\partial_{z}-z_{0})}e^{i\bar{q}(z-z_{0})}$.
quesitonable if this integral makes any sense.

Two particle potentials are non commutative on both argyuments, although
they probably commute with each other (until you porject again.
Hierarchical?)

The potential from a charge will behave as if coming from a classical
source as you go far away in a version of the multipole expansion and
perhaps OPE.

What about Green's theorem,
$\int\phi\nabla^{2}\psi-\psi\nabla^{2}\phi=...$ which is very immportant
in electromagnetism

I still think polarization P is the essence of some of what is going on.

Classical source = coherent state. Perhaps this isd the avenue by which
the epxoenntial part of bosonization will make sense.

When far apart, two objects behave with fields that are classical with
respect to one another.

Topological entropy. 
--------------------

Cut into pieces (in pure ground state). Find reduced Big N/2 density
matrix for pieces. entropy should have term that depnds on length of
boundary + constant that is indepndant and charecterstic of the
topological order.

My suggestion is that $\rho_{2}(x_{1},x_{2}x_{1}',x_{2}')$ should be
considered as a matrix function of two of its arguments, then there
might exist a berry phase for its decopmoistion. For the LLL
$\rho(x,y,x',y')$ acts as if it were a two particle matrix rather than a
1 particle matrix since x,y\~q,p.

Difference between a vector potential and a regular potential? On a
lattice, big difference. Vector potential acts on links in expoential
$e^{iA}a_{i+1}^{\dagger}a_{i}$. How would you chern simons
transformation on a lattice.
