Insulators are weird
====================

Ordinarily they don't concern us too much because they are so common
place.

Insulators stop all flow of electricity. From a classical perspective of
electrons getting stuck in treacle, this is no big deal. But ultimately
insulation is due to two things: energy gaps and the fermi principle.
Both are intrinsically quantum mechanical.

Charge quantization is also important. Electrical neutrality (which is a
very powerful influece) is what drives bands to be fully and half (due
to electron spin) filled. if for some reaons we could build a crystal
who's nuclei had charge $\sqrt{2}e$ or some strange other number, there
would be no reason to ancticipate full filling of any band. (I have no
idea if such a crystal could ever possibly be stable. Problably not.)

From first principles, the bloch picture does not exist. Bands are an
illusion. What is Rasta's polarization from a more fundamental
perspective?

The two particle density matrix is king. If we want total information
about the system the complete N-body function is required. For most
purposes, the two particle density matrix is acceptable and contains the
averaged information we desire. For example, the thrust of
superconductity and the kubo formula reuiqres its use.

Exact evaluation of Energy including interparticle interactions can be
achieved with its knowledge.

Locally, it is always possible to eigen decompose
$\rho_{2}(x_{1},x_{2})$ into real eigenvectors \~ $\rho_{1}\rho_{1}$
(this is related to the statement that hartree-fock works pretty
well/electrons are basically noninteracting in some sense) (would i ever
apply $\rho_{2}$as an operator to $\rho_{1}?$ the way I apply H to
$\psi$?) (THis is a bad viewpoint not real eiegevnctors. The eigenvtors
are the full eiegendeocmposed single particle matrices. Can i guarentee
these eiegenamtrices are hermitian? Porbably. Symmettries of
$\rho_{2}$gurantee). Real eigenvectors because
$x_{1}\leftrightarrow x_{2}$ symmettry means $\rho_{2}$ is symmettric
and if we're working on diagonal then every entry is real. What about
decomposition with fixed offdiagonality (same offdiaginality or
different for the two particles? if different, this is no longer a
hermitian problem matrix, cannot guarantee real eigenvalues) (could
point splitting be pertinent?). It will still be likely always possible
to find a dominant decomposition. Consider an adiabatic evlotuoin?
either slowly loop one set of variabels or slowly bring charge in
somewhere.

(Renormalized) Single particle hamiltobian is defined as single particle
excitation sector of total hamiltonan in new twisted renormalized basis.

Ultimately this idea seems to have veered into crackpottery. The
guessing game has rarely been super fruitful after a day or so.

Single particle basis is eigendocmposiotn of true $\rho_{1}$ in ground
state? Nooo. its a set of actual N-body state parametzxied by single
particle esque parameters.model that genberatores $\rho$ closest to
actual $\rho$? depends on level of perturbstyio thoery (landau's
adibatic evolution)?

If a net integer charge flows througha region slowly, shouldn't change
the decomposition much. a berry phase occurs in doecomposition? If is
truly single particle-like , this will match berry phase achieved in
model which matches a chern number in brillouin zone. Band spectrum only
exists as a blurry graph of $\rho_{1}(x,x',t)$ deocmposed into brillouin
esque structure and energy.

Chern number of this decomposition (using internal singlae particle
off-diagonal x-x' as parameter)? Put onto lattice so I have a brillouin
zone to work with. Or Put onto sphere to make everything finite. If I
let only one set of internal variables do a full $\pi$ exchange, I have
exchanged only one pair in one wavefunction?

Maybe a model for superocundcting and normal part is
$\rho_{2}\approx\psi\psi^{\dagger}+\rho_{1}\rho_{1}$. Actually. this
rings a bell from mahan. Can I do a variational calculation saying that
given constraint of hermiticty and exchange I can vary $\rho$?

Hall effect $A=\sigma\epsilon P$. Hall effect is a interpolation or
mixture of supercondctity and insulating behavior.

The dual of a supercoductor is an $A=j$ is a dielectric $P=E$. One
assumes that this dielectric should be the mott insulator just from the
talk I've been hearing. (Wannier crystal? Insulatiion due to a band due
to its own self crystal?)
