OPE is answer to 2 questions:

What is the interacting generalization of Wick's theorem?

Composite particles

If a bound state exists for 2 particles, the bound states will dominate
the hilbert space as they get close together. This follows from
orthonormality of eigenstates. The bound state will be localized around
$r_{1}\sim r_{2}$ hence lumped there, which means the free states need
to be suppressed there or highly oscillatory.

Are fusion rules, R, F equivlaent to entire CFT?

Fusion rules and decimation. Consider gauge thoery of finite group. 1-d
chain perfect decimation. Transfer matrix method. 0+1 gauge theory.

Kitaev chain gives essence of p+ip. $\sigma$ puts kink in m field (which
changes fermion vaccum). $\psi$ inserts majorana edge mode or regular
fermion?

Quantum dimension is asympotitc growth of anyon hilbert space

Anyone state are labelled by fusion chain. Intermediate partices that
appeared in their construction.

Jastrow form, dipoles, and fusion. If wavefunction is in jastrow form,
then two coordinates getting close can be written as a dipole field

SU(2) theory Really

A(x-vt)B(x+vt) and fusion in spacetime. This desciprtion of WZW model is
like saying wave equation is left and right moving guys. Doesn't
obivously imply the necessary lagrangian/quantization

I can form project out A by
$A^{-1}\partial A=C^{-1}(\partial_{t}-\partial_{x})C$. The left hand
side is essentially the infitiesmal generator for A at that point

Then path ordered integrate $A=Pe^{\int A^{-1}\partial A}A_{0}$. This
object is then the equivlaent of the chiral field. $A_{0}$ is somewhat
indeterminate. For example, on a loop all we ave is $A_{0}B_{0}=C_{0}$.

T matrix makes fourier optics exact, since T matrix is exact born
approxiation. T matrix is useful as intermediary step - takes care of
shape of potential but not relative location of many potentials.

$G=G_{0}+G_{0}TG_{0}$

$T=V+VG_{0}V+VG_{0}VG_{0}V$ expose one V on outside. Follows from Born
series

$T=V(1-G_{0}V)^{-1}=(1-VG_{0})^{-1}V$ Follows from geoemtric series.

$T_{A}$ and $T_{B}$

$G=G_{0}+G_{0}(V_{A}+V_{B})G_{0}+G_{0}(V_{A}+V_{B})G_{0}(V_{A}+V_{B})G_{0}$

Now however we can recollect terms from the infnite sum.

$G=G_{0}+G_{0}(T_{A}+T_{B})G_{0}+G_{0}T_{A}G_{0}T_{B}G_{0}+G_{0}T_{B}G_{0}T_{A}G_{0}+$
all sequences where The a index never gets repeated twice in a row.
We've lost self-interaction without at least an intermediate state.

$T=T_{A}+T_{B}+T_{B}G_{0}T_{A}+T_{A}G_{0}T_{B}+$

The approximation here may be much better than bare born before. The
approximation requires not that potentials are weak, but that they don't
communicate much (no double scattering from mutiple sources). Should
work well when far apart in higher enough dimension. (in 1-d for example
unvaoidably interact quite a bit).

We could extend in kind of a resursive scheme where we then consider a
cluster of 2 or three T and porudce their T matrix.

T-matrix in landau level?

1-delta function potential is excellent playground for scattering
theory. Everything is very solvable

The CPA looks very much like the band gap equation. Why is this
construction so ubiquitous?
