Quantum Field Thoery/ Many body quantum mechanics and the statistical
single particle QM

Replica Trick

Mayve not so surpiring. A gas of quantum background particles will
appear to be at random spots.

2 types of aervaging. Effective hamiltonians of the former involve
tracing out over all the higher N excitation subspace

Effective hamiltonains of the latter trace out the probbility to give
effective hamiltonian

In a sense the same thing except we have taken the quasi classical limit
for the other N particles

The renormalization rotation mixes the probabilistic part and the
operator part. Not really a rotation? The prbability for fixed scatters
does not evolve. Unless I make it evolve excatly to mainatain unitarity.

$|1>\otimes|N>$ or relatedly $\rho_{1}\otimes\rho_{N}$ also
$|1>\oplus|N>1>$ so I can schur complements.

$|\psi>\otimes P$ but really $\hat{\rho}\otimes P$ since they need to be
at the same level. $|\psi>\otimes P$ is like $\psi\otimes\rho$ which is
possible, but odd. This could only be maintained sensibly if There were
no connection between the first and second part of the system. The
evooltion of this system would not be hermitian. Which is gooed since I
want diffusion, but bad since it doesn't map into quantum mechianics

$H\otimes I+U$ U spans both spaces. U depends on the value of the
probabilistic parameters and has matrix elements. U is non hermitian

Perhaps to use the svd instead of partial trace. FInd best possible
wavefunction.

Probability averaging of U gives average U. However may want to average
after doing operationssuch as inclusion in green's function or double
green's function etc.

Harmonic oscillator chain with wall between classical and quantum part.
WHat happens whenI move the wall?

What are the goals?

You have a random Hamiltinain $H=H_{0}+V$

You could calculate its average $<H>$

$<H>^{-1}\ne<H^{-1}>=G$

What you really want is the latter

COnsider the Space $\psi\otimes\psi\psi\otimes\psi\psi\psi$ the space of
moments of the field. Does the potential cross these?

Or consider replicas (ie samples) $\psi\psi\psi\psi\psi$

Different initil conditions for same V or different solutions for
different V

Consider a ground state $\psi\psi\psi\psi$ and excitations above it

The clumping of one smaple at a location implies something about the
random potential there, which effects how the other's behave at that
spot

Consider cutoffs and $\beta$functions

The T matrix is the effective potential. Or $\Sigma$ the self energy is
the effective potential. Depends on your viewpoint. The two
