Kac-Moody
---------

I think these are the algebra of moments of currents or the fourier
moments of currents.

The cartan matrix is positive semi-deifinite for affine kac-moody which
are apparently the most pertient ones.

Spin as Non-abelian Charge
--------------------------

Aharnov-Casher effect: On cylinder Around charged wire, there is spin
orbit coupling $E\cdot v\times S$,
$\int Ev\epsilon dt=\int E\cdot dl=\lambda$. $E\times v\cdot S$.
$Pe^{i\int E\times dl\cdot S}$Fictitious magnetic field = $E\times v$
kind of? Taking loop paths near chagred particle, order of paths
matters. Non-abelian

COnstrain to 2D movement, but do not contrain E or S to 2D. Then E

Well the aharobov casher effect is focusing on the

Duality: A=P, $B=\rho$. $E=j$. $\phi=M$

$S\approx M\approx B$

Spin is parallel transports $\frac{dS}{dt}=0=\partial_{t}S+v\Gamma S$

$\Gamma=E\epsilon$

Total spin is found by direct product

$S\otimes S\otimes S\otimes S\otimes$

Consevred total spin is found by reducing that to irreducible reps. Will
never move out of that.

How could spin\>1 be unacceptable? Could put huge energy cost on it for
some reason. Then exclude it from ever happening. Or maybe wehen fusing,
The two particles always have to be in singlet? Consider Hund's rules?
Putting together atom you never get high spins really. Fundamental
particles = hydrogen. Then fuse to get bigger particles, but only
looking at spin. The periodic table would be complicated fusing of
spins. Total J of atom never exceeds such and such. Applications of
anyons to cold atom gases? Orthohydrogen and Parahydrogen. Apparently
very stable. i believe symmettry protected, but Topologically stable
maybe? Form bigger hydrogensH3 H4 etc.

If spin\>1 is unacceptable we still get Large number of spin degernacy
from the combining. This is anyonic degernacy. Weird porjective subspace
of total product spin space.

Flux interferometry
-------------------

A netural particle with a magnetic moment that is required to point up
acts as if it were a lfux quantum. Value of flux isn't flux quantum
though. Consider a neturon somehow stuck inside a 2d layer along with
the electrons. The zeeman energy would help align the neutrons moment
up. Then this particle is a more concrete relization of the fluxon. Less
confusing I think compared to

What about plasmons or excitons? exciton with $l\ne0$. Qualitatively
very similar to p+ip supercoductor. Maybe identical under considering
particle hole? excitons in gapped = boliubov in metals? Could we inject
these kinds of particles into a 2d syrface? Expose the QH to a REALLY
slow neutron source. Spinon or magnon. What other netural particles or
quasiparticles with spin and dipole momentsexist? These are netural
particles with possibly a spin. and they really would be stuck. Maybe
the vortices should be considered to be spin polarized excitons.

Extending to 3d can be taken as magentic monopole?
