What is charge?
---------------

Poorly defined.

COnsider gravity and mass

Killing vectors

Charge = mass = surface integral in region where our intuition holds
(weak field)

Monopoles, instantons, symmettry breaking (symmettry breaking might be
vtial to discussion. unclear. The standard model IS a nonabliean
superconductor)

If a higgs type field breaks symmttries, then the choice of
representation of the higgs field is associated with H or G/H.

Using duality to describe the electric charge as a higgs symmettry
breaking (the dual of quantized magnetic flux)

Perhaps discussions of confinement are important?

Fusion rules for level k SU(2)= truncation under decimation?

Atoms cannot have super higher J. It is enegetically disallowed. Fusion
rules could be a energetically presribed combination of spin

What is nonabliean ohm's law? Nonabliean Hall's Law?

Inertail charge versus grabitational charge. The charge that makes
fields versus the charge that feels fields. Are they the same? Why?

### Higgs

Gauge thoery versus non gauge theory: It's a choice.

What if I had exactly the same lagrangian but interpret one is gauge and
the other isn't? Classically doesn't matter until the interpretational
stage where we say that only gauge invariants can possibly matter.
Quantum mechanically it DOES matter. Path integral measure and
integration space

Apparently non gauge theories are not renormalizable?

Gauge invariance reduces the space of all possible lagrangians. Powers
of F and chern simons terms and other things., but for example mass term
is out of question.

### Meron

The meron seems important. It is related to the majorana fermions in
He3.

SO(3) is the group(? aren't we superocondctuign?). we're In 2-d.
Traceless symmetric tensor representation higgs field. gets broken into
preferred "orientation" The orientiation of a traceless symmtric tensor
is not a direction.

### Spin as Nonableian Gauge thoery

No gauge transfromation will ever trnasform betwene irrducible reps of
entire spin.

$S\otimes S\otimes S\otimes S\otimes S\otimes S\otimes S$ discrte
particles taken as a whole.

Local spin density/current = difficult to integrate into total spin in a
meaningful way.

Aharonov Casher = using spin orbit field as a connection. EVen though
magnetic field is 0 (only berry phase exists since spin orbit coupling
depends on v, so ) $A\cdot vdt=Adx$ is similar to $S\cdot E\times v$= .
$A=E\times S=A_{k}=E_{i}\sigma_{j}\epsilon_{ijk}$. Or
$A_{k}^{a}\sigma_{a}=$ $A_{k}^{a}=E_{i}\epsilon_{iak}$, a being the
group generator index and k being the spatial index.

Majorana
--------

The pfaffian is the correlator

The semi-inifite electron gas $\rho_{1}=\frac{1}{z-z}$

The higher order density matrices = pfaffian

$\psi\times\psi=1$ wick's thoerem?

in the ordinary p+ip superconductor there is a chern simons field
lurking somewhere? The notion of nonabliean symmettry breaking might be
perturninent here. Boojums and merons.

Complex valued d such that $|d|^{2}=1$

Majorana fermion don't have to match daggers with no daggers in the wick
expansion. That's what makes them different

Correlators also include charge conjugation operators C, whatever that
means. For a chiral majorana, maybe nothing.

Solitonic Basis
---------------

Jackiv Rebbi there is a bound state at domain walls. Could we expand the
full many body wavefunction in terms of these domain wall states?

Jackiv Rebbi is highly relatedt to SSH model and Kitaev chain. Expand
those in terms of their bound states?

THe 0 energy projection matrix $\int\frac{1}{H[\phi]-z}dz$.

Another Point on bosonzation. Are the bosonic fields a representation of
the braid algebra? Yang millsy. That's what the fadeev paper looked
like.

$a_{i}a_{i+1}=e^{i\pi/3}a_{i+1}a_{i}$ all others commute.

$a=\partial\phi$ or $a=e^{i\phi}$. $a=e^{i\phi(x+dx)}e^{-i\phi(x-dx)}$

Then some theta function stuff happened (theta is like expoentiaing or
theta removes factor, or theta orders?) Then a porudct happened (product
in like integrating?).

Bonderson SLingerland
---------------------

Majorana modes = nonabelian chern simons thoery in the bulk, evein in
p+ip supercoudctor$SU(2)_{2}$ I elieve.

Porably is just product of k matrix and

Details of wavefunctions are unimportant. What can change which makes.
1/z = $\partial_{z}$. u\*=$\frac{1}{u}$.

$\partial_{z}$ means particle hole conjuaget?

How does edge combine

Pfaffian = correlator of majroana modes
$<\psi\psi\psi\psi\psi\psi\psi>=Pf(\frac{1}{z-z})$

Wave function = CFT correlator

Working hypothesis is Unconnected majorana mode + K matrix. describes BS
state. (makes sense since it is a hierarchy on top of Pfaffian)

What are quasiparticle vectors? (abelian sector)

$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
2 & -1\\
-1 & 2
\end{array}\right]^{-1}=\frac{1}{3}\left[\begin{array}{cc}
2 & 1\\
1 & 2
\end{array}\right]$

What are nonabelian bits that come out front?

WHat are known g?

The $\sigma$ have scaling dimension of $\frac{1}{16}$
($<\sigma\sigma>\propto\frac{1}{t^{\frac{1}{8}}}$),

The $\psi\psi=\frac{1}{t}$

Chart from

**$BS_{1/3}^{\psi}$ has $g_{c}=\frac{1}{3}$,** which means $l=(1,-1)$?

Is charge of quasparticle always from abelian part? I believe so. Whats
the deal with Read Rezayi? The $g_{c}$ don't match the charge.

q$K^{-1}l$= $e*$. SO q doesn't have to match .

$g=lK^{-1}l$.

$g_{n}=?$ either 1/8 for $\sigma\sigma$ or $\psi\psi=1$. = 1.

$g_{n}$might include neatural abelian particles.

$<O_{1}O_{1}>\propto\frac{1}{t^{g}}$. An example of $O_{1}=e^{i\phi}$.
To convert to a current calculation via wqausiparticle tunnelling, we'll
need both edges, which will double g, and do a forueir transform which
will remove one power $I\propto V^{2g-1}$. To get conductance, we need
to remove another power of V $G\propto V^{2g-2}$. The g for an integer
state is 1 and the g for a simple laughlin fractional state is $g=\nu$

$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
2 & -1\\
-1 & 2
\end{array}\right]^{-1}=\frac{1}{3}\left[\begin{array}{cc}
2 & 1\\
1 & 2
\end{array}\right]$

$\left[\begin{array}{c}
\sigma e^{i\phi_{1}/2}\\
e^{i\phi_{2}}\\
e^{i\phi_{1}}
\end{array}\right]$BS$2/3$ state in slingerland chart

$q=\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
0
\end{array}\right]$

$l_{n}=\sqrt{\frac{3}{2}}\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
-2
\end{array}\right]$ $l_{n}K^{-1}q=0$

### BS$^{\psi}$1/3

$\left[\begin{array}{cc}
2 & 1\\
1 & -1
\end{array}\right]^{-1}=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
1 & 1\\
1 & -2
\end{array}\right]\frac{1}{3}$

$\left[\begin{array}{c}
\sigma e^{i\phi_{1}/2+i\phi_{2}/2}\\
e^{i\phi_{2}}
\end{array}\right]$

$q=\left[\begin{array}{c}
1\\
0
\end{array}\right]$

it appears that there is an extra factor of $\psi$ in there somehow. the
bosonic l = (1/2,1/2) gives g a factor of 1/12. the sigma give a 1/8.
1/8+1/12 = 5/24 which the the $\theta$ quoted. 5/24+1/2 = 17/24.
Possibly the 1/2 comes from $\psi$.

### anti states

### Thoughts

Try to understand $\bar{LL}_{1/3}$ first. should be better

Anti luaghlin has netural part even though abelian.

Downstream modes? What's the big deal?

How do you go from wavefunctions to edge theories: Composite fermion

The composite fermion form of BS states may be easiest?

Electron operators commute with all quasiparticle operators.

Sepearte abelian into charged part and neutral part.

Bonderson Letter
----------------

Prof Bonderson,

I'm a graduate student studying tunnelling in the FQHE at Brown
University.

A recent experiment (Source: Baer) Your paper (Bonderson Slingerland).
It is not entirely clear to me how to proceed. Is it possible I'm
missing a reference that explains the intermediary steps or is the edge
thoery theory apparent by inspection. I would really appreciate any

Thanks you,

Philip Zucker

curvature as magnetic field
---------------------------

gentle curvature = gentle changes of magnetic field
$z=\frac{x+iy}{l_{b}}$

traditional holes are signular addition of monagetic flux at that point.

### thoughts

Dirac belt trick is homotopy. belt represents path of rotation. perhaps
the Z2 nature of the broken SO(3) to SO(2) symmettry breaking?

Wess-Zumino soliton looks the transition from group elements A to B. Are
there majorana fermions stuck in it's crook? I bet there are.

Man the migdal kadanoff lattice has a fascinating recusive structure. If
I define my theory on it in the first place there is no bond moving
step. It's beatuful. Maybe I should make a scuplture.

Migdal kadanoff is how you make higher dimensional structures from
wires.

Migdal kadanoff is wavelet

There is another interesting candidate for boliguboc particle. OCnsider
a fixed 2N+1 state where one of the electron in the pairs is replaced
with a parameter. The other option is that of a single wavefunction
slapped outside the antisymmettrization.

Topology
--------

The core is that Energy restraints prevent two fields from being
transfromed into each other. We need to excite it everywhere or supress
the field value everywhere.

For non-gauge theories this means we need a constant value as
r=infinity. This is equivalent to compactifying your space with the
point at infinity.

For gauge theories instead we only need to suck off any angular
dependance with pure gauge. Therefore the point at inifnity does have to
have a limit and insetad the homotopy groups are classified by D-1
spehres (the flux integral at inifnty). In particle! We are discussing a
higgs type model here.

$G/H$ is standard temrinoloy for the locus of points of minimum of the
potential. A 2-d representation of a 20-d gorup seems unliekly to have
parts of the gorup that aren't represented trivially. $h\phi=\phi$ for a
chosen vlaue of the $\phi$ vector.

In the standard abelian higgs mxisan hat U(1), H=1 the trivial gorup
(because all members of the gorup will change the value (phase of
direction if we want to consiered U(1)=SO(2)) of the picked $\phi$.

Human beings are torii for the standard reasons for which you may appeal
to the literature.

tunnelling between parallel channels
------------------------------------

This is how you can weave edges into topological objects (spheres,
torii, etc) by binding together patches by their edges

Necessary for counterpropgating modes? Not necessary if not
counterporpgating?

Renormalization -\> low voltage behavior.
