Topological Insulators

Interesting perspective of QHE - set of coupled one way wires. if really
coupled become little loops. Dimerization of the lines leads to edge
modes.

0-D topological systesm

Subtlety. There can be forces that as you do them slower and slower get
weaker and weaker. Hoever, if you have a fixed goal, to get from here to
there, then the time this force is being applied gets longer and longer.
These two effects can sometimes cancel out, and it is very easy to
uncarefully discount any infintiesimal force when in fact the
accumulated effect is finite. COnsider chaning flux.
$d\phi/dt=E=\rho j$. Let's says we change the flux very slowly. Then the
electric field is quite small during the entire process. HOwever, These
forces must be proportional to the parameter velocity.

Berry Phase. Phase is a snesitive little guy. Imagine a foucault
pendulum swinging in a circle. One that is slowly dragged around will
become desynchronized with one that stayed at rest.

Berry phase for spin. $H=B\cdot S$. As the B field moves slowly, the
electron spin tracks it. So essentially you're rotating the thing.
Famously a 360 degree rotation of a spinor puts a phase of minus 1 out
front on the spinor. Remeber that puali matrices and spin need a factor
of 2 to connect them. COnsider
$U(360)=e^{i2\pi S_{z}}=e^{i2\pi\sigma_{z}/2}=e^{i\pi\sigma_{z}}=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
e^{i\pi} & 0\\
0 & e^{-i\pi}
\end{array}\right]=\left[\begin{array}{cc}
-1 & 0\\
0 & -1
\end{array}\right]=-1$. Similarly however, any rotation that isnt as
simple as this also has phase. For example, 90 of z, x, y. Is a rotation
that traces out 1/8 of the sphere.
$e^{i\pi\sigma_{z}/4}e^{i\pi\sigma_{x}/4}e^{i\pi\sigma_{y}/4}=(\cos\pi/4+\sigma_{z}\sin(\pi/4))(\cos\pi/4+\sigma_{x}\sin(\pi/4))(\cos\pi/4+\sigma_{y}\sin(\pi/4))$.
Blark. Long story short.

How about $\pi$ rotations in two directions. That traces out a 1/4
sphere. =
$(\cos(\pi/2)+\sigma_{x}\sin(\pi/2))(\cos(\pi/2)+\sigma_{y}\sin(\pi/2))=\sigma_{z}$.
Huh\... this is failing.

Also, infnitesinal loops trace out a phase of

The brilllouin zone berry phase. This is cute. The band thoery paradigm
of topology. Two bands can be represented as an effective spin. If you
fix k, then there. Basically, the band spinor gets twisted around on the
band in such a way that cannot be unwrapped. The band spinor cannot go
to 0, because it has to stay normalized. Electric field and such will
shift the k. If the band is filled with electrons, then the entire band
is involved in any response.

Semions and the dirac argument. The dirac argument is that there are two
convenient surfaces you can use to calculate flux in an iniftesimal
loop.An essentially nonexistant surface, and an entire surface. One
clearly has no flux. One has a monopoles worth of flux. The two have to
give agreeing results in the Ahronov Bohm effect. This means they have
to disagree by a not physically observable addition of $2\pi$ phase.

Consider performing a very small aharnov bohm experiment in a universe
with a magnetic monopole somewhere. The enclosed flux you calculate for
the phase difference of the two arms. can be done in two ways.

The flux pump argument. Changing the flux by 1 flux quantum introudced
into a loop brings the hamiltonian back to itself, but may not bring the
wavefunction back to itself.

QSHE. The qauntum spin hall effect can be considered to be 2 copies of
the hall effect with opposite magnetic field for spin up or spin down.
In its dumbest form $(p-A\sigma_{z})^{2}$. Now the opposite hall effects
have opposite hall resistances, so no net charge changes happen when
electric field is applied. Hypothetically, if spin is conserved, there
would be quantized spin currents and spin hall coffecients, a
perpendicular spin current to applied electric field.

My understanding is that spin conservation like that cannot be counted
upon.

Kramers degeneracy. Time reversal is antiunitary. It maintains norms,
but conjgates phases. This makes it a weirdo operator. Complex
conjugattion is an operation that does not commute with c-numbers. In a
time reversal invraint system where $T^{2}=-1$. $<\psi|(T|\psi>)=$Thne
each energy level is degenerate.

$a\psi+bT\psi$. Take norm. $a*a-b*b+(ba*+ab*)<\psi|T|\psi>$

Axion Electrodynamics

particle hole symmettry

Elementary dipoles make sense are free particles. One picture of the
hall effect at the macro scale is that a charge buildup occurs at the
edge of the samples such that the electric field from these cahrges
cancels the lorentz force and then the current can flow straight again.
On a microscopic scale, the dipole acts in the same way. One end of the
dipole supplies an electric force that cancels the exteernal magentic
filed force on the other end. Alternative, one can think of it as a
drift velcocity. In either case, the movement of the pair is
perpendicular to their seperation. It is curious that the claimed
composite fermions do not have a seperation that matches the coulomb
force between them. Maybe it secretly does know in some way I don't see.
The trouble is, that the proposed wavefunction does not know what
dimension the coulomb forces are operating in. Maybe the particles might
have some residual rotation if the forces don't balance exactly

What of quardupoles?

What are vortices? Well, there are ordinary fluid vortices. the velocity
field is such that the circulation is constant for any loop around it.
This means the flow field is $\frac{\hat{\theta}}{2\pi r}\Gamma$. This
would also be a good field the vector potential for a single singular
flux quantum. In the presence of such a fixed external field, the
wavefunction of the electron would wind around once. The entire field
could be gauged away by the change $\psi\rightarrow e^{i\theta}\psi$ if
the flux was 1 flux quantum. $\nabla\theta=\frac{\hat{\theta}}{r}$.

$e^{i\arg(z-z)}$. Ordinarily with some factor g(r) out front to suppress
the electron density there. The singulariy in the phase is otherwise
very costly in energy. Would this vortex show up in the SVD of the
density matrix for bosons? No. this is the binding thing. Not a singular
vortex. It might be the way you form a vrotex in a supercouctor however.
Yeha.

projecting this down to the LLL $\prod(z-\zeta)$

Vortices are a suppression of the electron density, so they have charge.

One definition of vortices being bound to charge is that if we fixed the
positions of all the other electrons, we add to the
wavefunction$\prod(z-z')$.

If C charge conjugation is a good symmettry, then you have a kramers
doublet if it squares to -1.

The orientation of the dipole is a spinor degree of freedom. What is the
meaning of having the spinor point in the z direction?

$P^{2}=-1$ in 1/2 hall state

Kramers Degeneracy
------------------

$<T\phi|T\psi>=<\phi|\psi>^{*}=<\psi|\phi>$

This is the defining property of an antiunitary operator.

Try to think in terms of row and column vectors. $\left[\begin{array}{c}
\alpha\\
\beta
\end{array}\right]$. Then antinuitary

Remeber also that antiunitary operators cannot slide through constants.
The constants have to get complex conjugated.

Preservese + complrex conjugates norms.

The otugh thing. We can decompose antiunitary operator into unitary
operator times complex conjugation operations. K as complex conjugation
is bad notation.

$<\psi|K|\phi>\ne<\psi^{*}|\phi>$ you cannot push complex conjugation
both ways.

Consider Triple Product of T

$<TT\psi|T\psi>=-<\psi|T\psi>$

But also by definiiton you can strip off two copies of the anitunitary
operator from both sides and exchaneg them for complex conjugation

$<T\psi|\psi>^{*}=<\psi|T\psi>$

Hence you have something is equal to the negative of itself (classic)
and it must be 0.
