Physics is hard. Like really hard. Part of the problem is that one can
become used to complicated topics in and of themselves without
unerstanding them in simple terms. Then when you have to try to
indoctirnate someone new, you just don't know where to start.

Qunatum Field Theory has a lot going on in it. Also its inscrutable and
unrealtable with almost no cdirect connection to everyday experience or
primeval intutiion .The thing is, a lot of topics in it are not
intirniscally qunatum field thoery topics. They are actually conecpts
that absolutely apply to simpler situations and frameworks.

The string pulled taut between two poles is the canonical example of a
field. Anything that requires only the wave equation to happen will
happen here and there is a lot. Because the system is relatively simploe
and subject tyo Freshman level newtoninan laws, we can derive in fun
ways poropertties that seem highly esoteric when first introduced in
other contexts and derived usuing difficult ituitively opaque
formalisms. I would say lots of the difficult topics in electromagnetism
are already in existence in this simple system

Stringostatics
==============

The first introduction to electromagnetism is electrostatics. Here we'll
show the equivalents occuring in a taut string.

Forces on Beads
---------------

The Lorentz force law for the bead is the inclined plane equations
$F=mg\sin(\theta)\approx-mg\partial_{x}y$. This is the obvious analog of
$F=-e\nabla\phi=e\vec{E}$. What about the magnetic force law? Well, a 1
dimensional string does not have sufficient complication to have such a
law or at least I'm not creative enough to find it. The magnetic field
is a rotaty kind of thing and there just isn't any rotaty things to do
in 1-d.

The attraction of beads to one another.

Coulomb's Law
-------------

The force vertical force balance of the string is
$T=\partial_{x}^{2}y=\rho$.
$T\sin\theta'-T\sin\theta\approx T\partial_{x}^{2}y$

The effective spring law depends on where you place the bead. Near the
fixed ends the spring is very stiff, while in the middle the string is
very loose.

Including the strings mass?

Simplicfications
----------------

Bending moment

Membranes
---------

Can you have a higher dimensional object where the field duirection is
always some kind of "gravity"

Stringodynamics
===============

Orbital Motion
--------------

Two beads will oscillatre around each other. This is the equivlaent of
planets orbitting the sun or electrons orbitting in the nucleus. The
motion is simple. Piecewise Parabolic trajectories around the center of
mass.

3-body motion?

Phase plane

Quantum Stringodynamics (QSD)
=============================

Quantizing the bead
-------------------

The inclined plane problem- Airy functions

Harmonic oscillator in standing wave (Bloch harmonic oscillator?)

$\hat{x}(t)=\hat{x}+pt/m$

$p=p-xt$

Quantizing the String
---------------------
