What is phase?

Analytic signal is one answer. But perhaps phase is too ephermeral an
object to really nail down.

Comparing Phase. Classically? Quantum Interference experiments?

Scalar connection. Let's say we a have a tempurature map on a surface.
How do we compare one tempruture to another? We have to transport it.
This is atypical. Maybe money is a better example. Let's just give your
money as a number with no units, but it is understood which country
you're in. Then we need to parrallel transport the money through
exchange rates. Now money better not have any non trivial loop integrals
or else you can make net money by exchanging your money into that
sequency of countries. In fact the opposite is true. Typically the
exchange process is inctircislly frictional, with each excahnge reducing
a percentage or taking a fixed cut. This is a nonreversible
transformation. If I were an unscrupulous man, I could probably sell
topological or geometrical economics. Typically we think about
connections preserving scalars (speifically length of vectors) that may
twist them and such. However this new thing is a close relative to berry
phase, where the number is now a complex number and transporting it
turns it. This could also be though of as a 2D vector being turned as it
goes around the mainfold.

The SLowly Changing Oscillator. Is a slowly changing base point (force
term) sufficent? I think not. However an oscillator with slowly changing
parameters clearly will act like one with constant parameters for small
inetrvals. to get berry phase in a harmonic oscillator, change mass and
spring constant. Regular oscillator is 2D os illator in phase space
terms. How well do normal modes track? What do degenerate modes do? they
can be tickled. In a sense we are no longer evolving in time. We are
evolving (moving) in parameter space since we can just remove the
trivial dynamic phase from our evolution.

Topological Degeneracy. Robustness of a energy gap = its size. When a
hamiltonian is degenerate it has a subspace with the same (or nearly the
same eigenvalue). If you can find an operator that clearly does
something non-trivial but also commutes with the hamiltonian you can
prove the hamiltonain must be degenerate. See Kramer's Theorem. If the
operator is somehow "topological", i.e. nonlocal and wiggle invariant,
then you have a topological degerenacy. Now can I show something like
that with a single particle? Probably not. Okay. That's a defeatist
statement. Well nonlocal implies some kind of space being involved.
Frust quantized space isn't really space in the right sense. If we're
talking many-particles it makes sense to use QFT. Then we can make funny
integrals. If they are wiggle invariant and perhaps reduce to
boundaryintegral evaluation or euler numbers or something. Imagine a

Berry Phase for spin $\left[\begin{array}{c}
\cos(\theta/2)\\
e^{i\phi}\sin(\theta/2)
\end{array}\right]$carrying it around the sphere.

The torus transport.

Decoherence.

Topological Band Structure. Bands structures are identical if they are
wiggled but no bands close. When you loop in phase space, watch the
wavefunction. Does it come back the way it came or loop. If you include
spins Its not crazy that you can get ununtwistable mappings from your
crystal momentum torus to funny spin space.

Maybe the two are not distinct. The topological band strcture posseses
degenracy at the edges. Thats the point. Can I form topological
orperators (Winding number let's say $\int\frac{\nabla\psi}{\psi}dx$)
that act on wavefunctions non trivially? Realspace topological band
strcture. As I move, energy is conserved but the band strcture is
wiggling underneath of me. Adiabatic language
$\dot{H}=\frac{\partial\omega}{\partial k}\cdot\frac{\partial H}{\partial x}$.
$\dot{k}=F+v\times B$ . Is there a contribution to B from berry phase?

Do you suppose there is a berry phase in themrodynamic systems? In a
Boltzmann kind of way they are just really really long cycle
oscillators. Something notrivial happens under slow evolution of
parameters. SOmething subtle or obvious (can I intepret entropy or
something as berry phase phenomenon?). Hystersis maybe? loops around
critical points?

If every energy level got the same berry phase. Unlikely though. or if
they get different ones but only a small number dominate in partition
function or something.
