Faraday Style EM. How to draw the field accurately. Debatable if should
even touch EM.

Circuits. Nerve Action Potential. Batteries. Ionic solutions. Other
examples of electircity in biology. shark detectors. Eels

Tubes of flux. Check out that one berkely book purcell I think. Also
biophysics textbooks

eikonal? Porbably not.

Ray Optics

Envelopes and carrier waves.

Enevlope Involute Geometry

Wave optics . complex Scalar field as Feynman QED wiggly arrows. Explain
COmplex exponential?

Read Newton's Optics Da Vinci Goethe

Lin Alg? Porbably not enough time to do any justice. Keep it visual

Projective Geometry? Perspective. Definetly don't do the formalism. Find
a resource for artists?

Fermat's Principle

Pierce the heart of lens optics. How do you know where the focus is
without ray tracing?

The image is everywhere.

Camera Obscura - could avoid lens optics altogether if need be via this.
Look through the hole. That's what you see.

Color Theory: Cones, Rods, Color combinations. What is physical color
(frequency or wavelength of a wave is cop out answer only true for
laser. other sources it is much less clear. Chemistry of the cones,
oscillator excitiation lorentz absoroption. Jump rope connected to
resonant oscllators).

Eye Anatomy.

Optical Illusions

Recoginition, Neural Networks,

The Ear

How do you describe the world? The bojective is to describe what's
happening so precisely, that you can type it up and send it over to your
friend and he can do the exact same thing. Numbers man. But we also want
to say as little as possible. You didn't describe the desk you were
writ9ng on. YOu didn't say use a pnecil. We want to boil down to the
essence, and we've found that the simpler the principlkes the more
widlely applicable

What is the state of light? If I put a screen here or here or here. Or a
cemra obscura. What happens? What do i need to know How much is
redundant? Could I maybe just tell you a sliver and you can get all the
rest? What does the light "look" like? a bunch of imaginary rods in
space (rays?)

Newton's 3 laws

1\. Velocity must be measured relative to something

2\. The state of a system is position and velocity. We should consider
two systems that differ only in velocity and position as the same
system.

3\. momentum is conserved (In a sense, the first and 3rd are equivalent.
Both are statements about same symmettry/conservation)

Symmettry and Conservation are dual?

Transport
---------

Locality in physics

Using as little as possible to describe it all. Einstein's quote

Occam's razor

1-d water flow. Av=Av Conservation of mass

Heat as energy

momentum

Symmettry and conservation laws? Touch maybe, but I don't know how to
show at low level\...

Kinematics - How to desribe flow of water. What is the state of a box of
light? Well, what could we etermine from the state? What any possible
camera could see? Any possible observer? What is state and what is
dynamics? Good open question. Netwons second law: the state of objects
is position and velocity.

What part of state is redundant. From all data we can collect, what is
enough to determine all the rest? (sufficient statisitc). What scenarios
are the "same"" and which are "different"? What if I kept position and
velcoti the ame and tweaked charge? Shouldn't charge be state?

Dimensional analysis - Period of pendulum, drag maybe, . In abscence of
prior information, anything dimensionless is porbably about 1 by default
(except Reynolds numbers). Freqeuncy of a guitar string.

The connection between geometry and arithemtic/algerba. Adding,
substracting multiplying. Demo of making draw blind curves.

Vectors as displacements. Vectors as velocity. Vectors as multinumbers:
cat-dog vector. Color vectors

Optics
------

Why does a mirror turn left into right but not up into down. Demo. Put
glove on one hand, rotate self to face audience, show how not the same.
Two mirrors at 90-ish? Show that is rotation. Mirrors turn front to
back, not left to right. Rotate mirror sideways, left still becomes
right not up down. Its because our body has bilateral mirror symmsttry
but not up down mirror symmettry. Look at non symmettrical object in
mirror. Chiral Molecules

Principle of least time: The lifegaurd model. That light doesn't go
ridiculously out of its way. TO go to the moon and back to. Give snell's
law as homework. (Trig)

Huygens' Principle

Slowness vector. Its big when moving really dlow, small when moving
really fast. The inverse of velocity. multiply times distance to get
time. change of slowness wrt time is the gradient of the index of
refraction. The ray equation. This is F=ma of optics. Linear increasing
index of refraction gives parabolic motion like gravity. quadratic
casues simple harmonic motion? Take snell's law as limit of fast linear
layer.

And yet the slowness vector is a velocity vector as far as transport
goes\...? Right? Phase vs. group velocity?

Snell's Law

Total Internal Reflection - Fiber optics - Sparkling diamonds/faceting.

Reflection Law

The camera obscura: Have some homework quesitons asking baout what kind
of image they'll see. Or to draw the image. If your eye would see just a
single spot of the object, then your eye is at the location of a real
image.

Very short discussion of perspective.

Lens: WHy do lenses accidentaly happen? Dewdrops. Rainbows.

Lens intuition.

Eye conditions and corresponding lens aberrations

focus

depth of field

aperture

microscopes

telescopes

photometry

EM
--

D is the shouting of charge "I'm here!". Or road signs to charge. Each
charge gets an amount of roasdisgns to post. It is like water flow
(Gauss' Law). D tubes begin on poisitive and end on negative.

E is the tugging of charge. There are roadside attractions that charge
are attracted tyo. The bigger the spectacle, the more they want to go.
In some locales charge is less interested in other charge (permittivty).
How this is connected to D depends on material. Often, they are
proprtional. Double the hsouting does make chagre want to go 4 times as
much. double makes charge want to go double.

B is the tugging of poles.

H is the hsouting of current/ The shouting of poles

How magnets work. (Not Why.) Magnets always have two poles. If you bust
a magnet in two you get four poles.(We call them north and south, but we
might as well call them plus and minus). So what's going on inside the
magnet? Well, the busting of the mget can be mental not physical, so
really the magnet is a large stack of dipoles. Hence H =0 inside magnet?
Double check that one.

Energy = shouting times tug

Dipoles

The arbitriness of the sign of charge definition (charge symmettry,
similar to dimensional invaraince). Interesting to me. Probably not to
them.

potential

circuits

The connection between E and B. Little loops of current act like little
magnetic dipoles. That is weird.

As far as anybody knows, ALL magnetic poles ultimately are from little
loops of wire. magnetic tubes never end.

Magnets make current rune in little loops. Lenzs' law

displacement current

E changing causes b to change, which causes E to change. We have a loop.
Feedback. (Negative Feedback in any place? Resistors?)

Charge has negative feedback in accumaltion, mass gravity has postitive.
Interesting.

radiation - The purcell argument

Why is the sky blue

poynting vector. Literlly points although that is a dude's name.

Fresnel-young equations

Waves
-----

What do you think of when I say wave? Water waves probably. What makes
it a wave? Our abstraction of Waves are shapes that move at constant
velocity (for a signficant enough time that we recognize them as
objects). (or shapes that seem to travel as a single object would). In
water, that velcity depends on the shpae and size of wave. In many media
(slinkies, air), the velcoity is indenamnt of shape. The wave does not
mean that any mass is being tranpsorted. But it does always mean that
momentum and energy are being transported? If the shape holds energy and
momentum (momentum is function of shape and change of shape wrt time).

Water Waves, deep waves, shallow waves, channel waves. What casues them

We want to work with simple waves. Periodicity tends to occur because
of\...?

Delta pulse wave/ Brick(or gassian) wave. Localized. Pure location wave.

Cosines and Sines. The most L sized functions there are. Pure Scale
Wave. Or most Periodic. Or smoothest periodic function. Hmmm. actually
pretty hard to dignify. COme from linear differential equations. and
hings have a tendnency to be linear in some regime. due to taylor
expnaions of more complated differntial dynamics.

Complex exponentials (probably going too far). Feynamn Arrow, take
horizontal part. (Real part) or verticla part, which will match. Say
length of arrow is due to enevlope, porjection of arrow onto vertical
part due to carrier freqeuncy

Envelopes. Group Velocity. Wave packet. Long wave packets are closer to
pure sines, short are closer to delta pulses. Both are huge
idealizations that we use when we can, The wave packet is the next
simple that inteprolates between them. Sometimes it won't be good enough
either. Mixed Scale and Local wave

Phase. Phase velocity.

Superposition

Inteference

Diffraction

Statistical Mechanics
---------------------

Chemical Potential
