Intercalation
-------------

Layered structures have Van der Waal forces. Van der Waal forces are due
to the correlation of quantum fluctuations. Quantum fluctuations will
induce a dipole moment at random. However, this dipole moment will
induce another one in the surrounding atoms.

Gaps

Nanoscale Heterostructures

Acid Base?

Mechanism? From the side? from the top?

Diffraction
-----------

Fourier Transform Kinematical thoery single scattering

First order Born Scattering

Planar scattering

eikonal approximation

Convolution theorem

The square of the fourier tansform is the diffraction pattern

patterson function - some sort of reverse patterson function is why I
have two spot.

Friedel Sum rule

Low pass filter on strcuture.

Bragg Planes as mirrors. Mirrors work because every part of the surface
acts as a coherent scatterer. They have to be poloished smooth at least
a wavelength.

Mirrors from Forueir transform law

X-ray scattering occurs due to charged particles. The incoming light
causes the chrged particles to accelerate, Accelerting particles
radiate.

$$ma=-\omega^{2}mx=eEe^{i\omega t}$$

$$\rho$$

$$A_{x}(q)=\int d^{3}xe^{-iq\cdot x}\rho_{e}(x)$$

Electrons are scattered by the electromagnetic field.

$$A_{e}(q)=\int d^{3}xe^{-iq\cdot x}V(x)$$

$$\nabla^{2}V=\frac{\rho}{\epsilon}$$

$$A_{x}(q)=-1A_{e}(q)$$

A perfect crystal

$$|A(q)|^{2}=\mathscr{F}[P(x)]$$

The auto correlation or Patterson function

$$P(x)=\int d^{3}u\rho(u)\rho(x+u)$$

$$P(x)=\int d^{3}u\rho(u-\frac{1}{2}x)\rho(u+\frac{1}{2}x)$$

The autocorrelation indiacates how much a function matches itself
shifted by an amount x.

The denisty is often split into a hierarchy. First of, we typically
consder each atom as a unit

$$\rho_{a_{n}}(x)$$

$$\rho(x)=\sum_{n}\rho_{a_{n}}(x-x_{n})$$

$$W(x)=\sum_{n}\delta(x-x_{n})$$

$$\rho=\rho_{a}*W$$

$$\tilde{W}(q)=\sum_{n}e^{-iq\cdot(x-x_{n})}$$

In the special case of a crystal the ditrubtion becomes the dirac comb,
where the $x_{n}$ cover a crystal lattice

$$\rho=W_{c}*\rho_{u}$$

The unit cell denisty is

$$\rho_{u}=\sum_{\text{unit cell atoms}}\rho_{a}(x-x_{n})$$

The Driac comb transfroms into the reciprpcol dirac comb

$$W(x)=\sum_{n,m,l}\delta(\vec{x}-n\vec{a}-m\vec{b}-l\vec{c})$$

Is the 2 pi there?

$$\tilde{W}(q)=(2\pi)^{3}\sum_{h,k,l}\delta(\vec{x}-h\vec{a}*-k\vec{b}*-l\vec{c}*)$$

The strcutre factor is convloved with the dirac comb

Finite crystals can be modelled using an envelope on the dirac comb,
which becomes convolution in the fourier domain

box becomes sinc function

The perfect crystal diffraction pattern is as sharp as possible. Most
deviations from perfect crystallinity tend to broaden peaks

Averaging.

An ensemble makes sense for thermal broadening

sum over translation phase factors becomes a random walk, with average
finite crystal broadening. However, there will be correlations and
clumping and repulsion. Repulsion will tend to produce a superlattice

Point defects can be added in

Planar defects. Heaviside becomes $\frac{1}{k\pm i\epsilon}$.
(1-sinc(gap)) An inserted crystalline plane becomes a set of lines.

Line defects. Planes

structure factors. At each lattice point is hung the unit cell pattern.
The distinction between lattice and unit cell is ambiguous. If unit cell
must double, then new peaks wil appear.

Experimental factors - powder, laue, lorentz factor. Oreintation
distirbution

Dynamical theory

MoO3 Structure
--------------

Orthorhombic something

electronegatvity, reactivity of oxygens?

preferred sites of copper - physical constraints

Phase Transitions
-----------------

Order Disorder

Copper gas to copper liquid? copper liquid to copper solid?

Displacive

Thermodynamics -

Controllable or measurable parameters Volume, tempurature, pressure,
composition

Free energy as a functional of the

Phase curves

Spinodals

Order parameter

Phase Diagrams
