Alternate titles:
=================

It doesn't matter how bad I write this. Just get words and we'll edit
them later.

Abstract
--------

The microscopic nature of the 5/2 Quantum Hall state continues to be a
mystery and the possibility of a realization of a non-abelian state of
matter is tantalizing. Two Experiments \[Radu et al., Science 320, 899
(2008); Lin et al., Phys. Rev. B 85, 165321 (2012)\] measured the state
dependant voltage and tempurature scaling of tunnelling current between
edge modes in a Quantum Point Contact with conflicting results. Feldman
and Guang \[Phys. Rev B. 88, 085317 (2013)\] made the suggestion that
the inclusion of across gate coulombic interaction may account for the
discrepancy. They suggested a smoking gun experiment to confirm their
explanation of a new device designed to have a finite region $L_{0}$ of
coulomibc interaction. Such a device would show a change of scaling
behavior between that of interacting and non-interacting at tempurature
$T\approx\frac{\hbar v}{k_{B}L_{0}}$ where $v$ is the speed of the edge
mode. In an attempt to make their suggestion more explicit, the
tunelling conductance has been calculated including both the effects of
across-gate coulombic interaction and finite interaction region using
the method of bosonization.

One promising experiment is the measurment of tunnelling current in the
$\nu=5/2$ quantum hall effect. To differentiate between the different
candiadate states, a subtle fitting to experimental data must be
performed. The differential conductance is $T^{2g-1}$. Conflicting
results were found from two groups.

The tunelling of strongly correlated edge states can be calculated using
the technique of bosonization.

The 5/2 state was discovered in 198- by the group of . A surprising
event given the the current theoretical picture of the fractional
quantum hall state.

(Maybe not true) The gap. A gap is essential prerequisite for
quasiparticles. A gapped ground state has characteristics quite
dissimilar from an ungapped. Gapless excitations can have arbitrarily
low energy, making the system nonrigid and capable of flow and highly
susceptible to dissipative cascade of energy of bulk movement into its
many writhing constituent parts. Apparently, according to Dima, the
$\nu=1$ state is ungapped (skyrmions? spin waves?). Gap is not a
prerequisite for quantum hall behavior? A key player in gap or gapless
is the nature of spin inside the state. The characteristic Zeeman energy
is much smaller than the cyclotron energy due to effective mass? leading
to a possible splitting of the state with a very

Unclear questions:
------------------

Tunneling subtraction from Hal effect

Shubnikov-de Haas and connection to QHE

Why the temperature ranges? Clearly if we could do higher and lower we'd
be able to fit better. Equilibriation measurement using quantum well?

unscreened coulomb

How to estimate order of interaction

Increase of fitting parameters - Bad but better than to too few

how was fit done?

Thermal wavelength

The types of states: might be too much outside my abilities/time
ocntraints?

Memorization:
-------------

Plateau plots. I hsould be able to roughly write down the entire thing
from memory

Porpotionalityto B field

Temp

Gap sizes

electron mobility

denisty

Redo Calculations for freshness
-------------------------------

Landau Levels

Bosonization proecedures (path integral and oherwise)

$\phi$ $\theta$

Sign of Z means what?

Presentation
============

Quantum Hall Effect
-------------------

The quantum hall effect is a crucial touchstone in the history and
conceptual background of condensed matter physics. The very precise
quantization of the hall conductance of a dirty sample is a striking and
apparently mostly unanticipated result.

### What?

SHow the standard graph

The hall bar is a current fed through the ends by an external current
source and a voltage measured across the bar. The classical hall
resistance is $R=\frac{B}{ne}$

The 2DEG. A 2d system can have distinct properties from a 3d system.

$\nu=\frac{nh}{eB}$ The ratio of magnetic flux quantum to electrons

Von Klitzing Disocvered that $R_{xy}$ has plateaus in integer
submultiples of $\frac{e^{2}}{\nu h}$

Dips in $\sigma_{xx}$ (insulating).

Just from these axioms + basic principles of EM and QM, one can
comnclude a lot (see laughlin arguments)

### Why?

In a magnetic field, free electrons perform cyclotron obits. the more
kinetic energy the electron has, the larger the orbit. Just as in the
orbits around an atom, the energy eigenstates exist such that the path
of the orbit in an integral multiple of the de broglie wavelength of the
electron or equivalently that the orbit encloes one flux quantum
$\frac{h}{e}$. This leads to a qwuanrtization of allowed kinetic energy
called the landau levels, with energy coming in multiples of
$\hbar\omega_{c}$. $\omega_{c}=\frac{eB}{m}$ $20K/T$ in GaAs

The guiding center is the location of the center of the cycltron orbit .
As long as nothing changes too much over the size or time scale of the
cycoltron orbit, we can average and ignore the sqift orbtial motion and
seperate its obvious dynamics from the more sophsuiticated dynamics of
the cneter. We find ourselves in the

The lowest landau level, we in a certain sense collapse the 4-d phase
space into a 2d one. x and y become conjugate variables like p and x,
with an uncertainty relation that has $l_{B}^{2}$ in place of $\hbar$.
We can work in a fornmalism where the harmonic oscillator states.

Already we see the edge is a very interesting place. A lot of the action
takes place there.

The Fractional Quantum Hall Effect
----------------------------------

Electrons are not free (although it is often convenient to try thinking
of them as so and seeing what kind of conclusions one can draw). They
repel one another.

It seems strange to have bound states from a repulsive interaction (and
there is no funny business like a phonon mediated attractive interaction
or something). Classically, the electrons still do their little
cyclotron orbits as long as their ? These little cycltrons orbit around
each other due to the drift velocity $E\times B$ . The coulomb energy is
$\frac{e^{2}}{l_{B}}$ and should be compared the the cycoltron energy.

The laughlin wavefunction:

$\psi(\{z_{k}\})=\prod_{i<j}(z_{i}-z_{j})^{3}e^{-\sum|z_{i}|^{2}}$

$z=\frac{1}{2l_{B}}(x+iy)$

$l_{B}=\sqrt{\frac{\hbar c}{eB}}=\frac{25nm\sqrt{T}}{\sqrt{B}}$

$\frac{e^{2}}{\epsilon l_{B}}=50\sqrt{B[T]}K$

The haldane pseudopotential

Jastrow form

Key points to note. Higher order zeros than fermi statistics required
keeps electrons far apart from each other lowering coulombic energy.

Quasiparticles
--------------

A quasiparticle is a parametization of the system that intuitively jives
with properties we think of as particle-like (especially nearly free
particle like). Things come chunkily (you can count particles). They may
have velocities and effective single particle hamiltonains. The
excitations are more or less localizable. The objects are identical and
more or less noninteracting. Strongly interacting (particles who's
behavior qualitatively dpends on the nature of their interaction)
particles hypothetically include the entirety of physics, so you don't
gain much by finding new hypothetical particles that are stronlgy
interacting unless by analogy to an already sovled equivlanert problem
you know what they do (For example Luaghlin's plasma analogy)

So if you slap the parameter

$\psi(\{z_{k}\},Z)=\prod_{i}(z_{i}-Z)\prod_{i<j}(z_{i}-z_{j})^{3}e^{-\sum|z_{i}|^{2}}$

You can say there is a quasiparticle at Z. What kind of particle is it?

Chiral Luttinger Liquid
-----------------------

We can build up the many-body state by using a slater determinant. We
can imagine a knob controlling the magnetic field or the number of
electrons. Once we've used up all the states within the radius, we
cannot put another electron in without the energy cost of the next
landau level $\hbar\omega_{c}$

$\rho=E^{g-1}$

$g=\frac{g_{u}+g_{l}}{2}$

The 2D electron Gas
-------------------

How is it made? History. Current State of the Art. Pfeiffer baldwin and
west.

The $\nu=$ 5/2 States
---------------------

There are a bunch. Why? maybe partially because 5/2 is such a large
number. The number of reaosnable trial states that can be invented
appears to increase with filling factor (roughly).

Haldane-Rezayi - Defunct? Gapless

The Moore-Read Pfaffian state. A pfaffian is the square root of the
deterimant of a skew symmettric matrix. a skew symmettric matrix has all
eiegenvalues coming in complex conjugate pairs. Similar the using the
vandermonde detemrimant, we use the pfaffiam of $\frac{1}{z_{i}-z_{j}}$,
whiwhc is indeed a skew symmettric matrix. Composite particles are
fermions which then condense into a superocnductor g= 1/4

331 g =3/8

113

anti-pfaffian g= 1/2

$SU(2)_{2}$ g = 1/2

K=8 g = 1/8

Anti-k=8

Anti331 g = 5/8

anti-$su(2)_{2}$ g = 3/4

So we have a number + all their anti states. Particle hole dual.

Anyons
------

WHy don't you have to antisymmettrize with the moon? If particles are
far enough apart, for all intents and purposes there is no distinction
between boson or fermions or distinct particles. Effectively they are
anything you'd like (also noninteracting)

The Edge
--------

Edge states

Edge states can classically be thought of as skipping orbits or drift
orbits.

The quantum hall state can be thought of as an incompressible fluid. The
only thing incompressible fluids do is flow. which we can achieve by an
overall phase? Is it irrotinational flow? But overall phases are gauge
transformations. So the only thing is can really do is wash ahore like a
gravity wave.

The bosonic field can be sort of though as the higeght function of the
wave. $h=\rho=\partial\phi$.

Edge reconstruction

Berry Phase
-----------

Oscillators tend to be insensitve to amplitude variations but very
sensitive to phase variations. If we took a pendulum and slwoly changed
its length or some other slow change, we have the expectation that we
could account for the synchronization of the pendulum

Other experiments
-----------------

Interferometry

Shot noise - de piccioto

Upstream Netural modes

Quantum Computation.
--------------------

It would be insane to include this section. Nevertheless. The madness of
quantum mechanics is the way it scales with N. Nothing else scales the
same way. Porbability is closest, as is to be expected since quantum
mechanics and probability are brothers (ignoring phase). Particle = $b$.
Many particl**les** **$b^{N}$** A classical field $b^{DL}$. That is 1
quantum particle. A quantum many particle is of size $b^{NDL}$. That's
bad.

Topological quantum computation hopes to encode inofrmaion into
topologically portected quantities. The classical version might be
encoding into the knotting of a rope instead of the shpae of a rope.
Clearly more robust. Or building a turing machine on cats cradle.

You don't get full gates. The topological operations you can perform
arne't indivudally any unitary transfromation. But you can do many of
them to apporximate.

Charge $e^{*}$
--------------

What is a quasiparticle.

Laughlin Plasma argument

Laughlin flux tube argument

shot noise epxeriments

The 3 Tunnelling Experiments
----------------------------

The Devices. MBE. The mobility.

Pictures of devices

Qualitative picture and sizes. Thin

3 different results

Fitting methods

Bosonization
------------

The chiral boson. We know how to quntize balls and springs. We know has
many many ball s and springs. What is the wave equation? Its functions
moving at c to the left or right. D'alembert decomposition is a way to
expcitlty feather those compoents out. So it endsu p being the left guy
is $\phi_{R}=\int\Pi dx+\phi$. Transfroming to $\phi_{R/L}$ . We can see
that commutation relations are going to be kind of screwy.

Alternative: balls and springs. Balls and spirngs in magnetic field
kills kinetic term and adds vnew term if magnetic field
$A=\partial_{x}\phi$

Although fun, this is kind of BS and perhaps not a porfitable direction.
On the other hand, it is more individual. Tough call.

The connection $\partial_{x}\phi=\rho$.

$\psi\sim e^{i\phi}$. The peculiar commutation relations can create
peculiar statistics.

The K matrix

The exponent g
--------------

I-V characterstic. Dimensionless conductance. Density of states

Tunnelling is a product of states filled on one side and states empty
ready to receive on the other.

g For different edge theories.

Suppression of low T or low V tunnelling is a larger g. For large T or V
big g means better tunnelling

The orthogonality catastrophe. Very small overlap between N+1 highly
correlated ground state and N hihgly correlated state with extra
electron no all woven in.

Lin describes it as a number descrbig the state

$AT^{(2g-2)}F(g,\frac{e*I_{DC}R_{xy}}{k_{B}T})$

$g_{T}=\frac{R_{D}-R_{xy}}{R_{xy}^{2}}$

annealing techqnieu - Gate at -3V 4K for several hours

Radu

Okay so scan thourgh magnetic field. Find Rxy plateau for 5/2. Then scan
thourgh gate voltages to find gate voltage at which persists to highest
tempurature

Fit to an offset resistance, amplitude A, e\* and g

e\* for all porposed states is 1/4 and has been confirmed by shot noise
expierments

g =0.35

Yang and Feldman
----------------

My calculation
--------------

The smoking gun

Current as function of voltage

change of behavior
