The Optical Theorem
-------------------

The optical thoerem I think is probably related to the fresnel
construction.

If you recall, the fresnel construction sepeartes a wavefront into zones
that roughly completely interfere with each other. We get the curious
fact that the wavelets must be being produced 90degrees out of phase
with the actual phase of the wavefront, because the bulk of the
amplitude comes not from the closest point tyo the point of observation,
but in fact from a ring 90 degrees

We get the reslut that the ampltidue from ther total wave is like 1/2
that of just the firsts zone.

We also get that index of refraction is due to coherent scattering
(which is in phase with the actual wavefront and hence 90 degrees out of
phase with the wavelets) interfering with the wavelets i a manner that
can be reabosrbed into the complex expontential.

I think this story is sufficient to physically derive the optical
thoerem

The kirkhoff factor shows that the wavelets only possess l=0 and l=1
spherical waves\... curious.

In the past I have been convinced of the relation between the optical
and fluctuation dissipation thoerem. I'm not sure what I meant.

Partial Wave
============

The rayliegh expansions of plane waves in terms of spherical waves

$$e^{ikr\cos(\theta)}=\sum$$

$$\int Y_{l}^{m}e^{ikr\cos(\theta)}d\cos(\theta)d\phi=$$

$$e^{ik\cdot x}=\frac{1}{rk}\sum i^{l}(2l+1)j_{l}(kr)P_{l}(\hat{x}\cdot\hat{k})$$

Angular momentum
----------------

Angular momentum is a stand in for impact parameter b.

Classically

$$L=v_{\infty}b=\frac{p}{m}b$$

Way far out from the origin, spherical waves become plane waves. Hence a
linear wavepacket around b will become a wave packet around l = bk.

The asymptoitc form of spherical waves is

$$\frac{\sin(kr-l\frac{\pi}{2})}{kr}$$

$r\approx z+\frac{x^{2}+y^{2}}{2z}$

I'm dealing with sort of paraxial wavepackets. In such a limit, the
transition between spherical waves and plane waves ought to be extremely
simple

$$e^{ik\cdot x}=\frac{1}{rk}\sum i^{l}(2l+1)j_{l}(kr)P_{l}(\hat{x}\cdot\hat{k})$$

I put a gasuss enevople on my pure z plane wave. This is then a gaussian
in k-space shift with its cetner at kz=k.

What is the phase shift
-----------------------

In the hard sphere, the phase shift is $\delta=ka$ for l=0 wave. the l=0
radial equation has no radial potential in the schord eq, hence the
shift of the origin matters little.

$\frac{d\delta}{dk}=a$. The effective radius of the object

$\sigma\propto\sin^{2}(\delta)$

The eikonal phase shift

The Born phase shift

Lippmann Schwinger
------------------
