There has been a deal of hullabaloo recently in regards to Dam Son's
proposal for an effective thoery of the quantum hall liquid at
$\nu=1/2$.

The non particle hole symmetric nautre of the HLR thoery has been
troubling. The new thoery puts an emphasis on this.

The proposed effective lagrangain is
$L=\bar{\psi}\sigma\cdot(-i\nabla-a)\psi+\epsilon Aa$

Recently, Feldman and Guang showed that there is another topoligcal
order that is a reasonable but undiscussed candidate for the $5/2$, the
113 state.

The pfaffian is not particle hole symmettric. Under particle hole
transformation it turns into the anti-pfaffian, a distinct topological
order.

This is discussed in "Particle-hole symmetry and the Pfaffian state" by
Levin et al.

The Thermal hall conductance is a much more difficult thing to measure
than the charge hall conductance, but it is also topological.

When the two edges of the Hall liquid are at different tempuratures,
they cause a net heat current to flow along the edges. The ratio between
the two .

The non particle hole symmetirc nautre of the pfaffian is also
concerning, leading to the possible suggestion of a particle hole
symmettric state at the filling factor $5/2$ as well.

We can deduce some properties of the edge theory of such a state.

Can we see this for a simple model of the integer effect?

It is discussed in Kane and Fisher "Quantized thermal transport in the
fractional quantum Hall effect"

$\frac{\pi^{2}k_{B}^{2}}{3h}T$

Electrons carry both electrical current and heat, leading to the
Widemann Franz Law.

$I_{E}=\frac{L}{2\pi}\int dEg(E)f(E)E\frac{v}{L}$. Is the noninteracting
expression for the energy current of an edge.
$f(E)=\frac{1}{1+e^{\beta(E-\mu)}}$. The density of states
$g(E)=\frac{dk}{dE}=\frac{1}{hv}$. The constant density of states is
vital to a lot of the stuff occuring in 1d. The factor of $v/L$ is the
vacation freqeuncy of the edge state. We can rearrange the integral to
be dimensionless
$I_{E}=\frac{(k_{B}T)^{2}}{2\pi h}\int ds\frac{1}{1+e^{s}}s$.

How do you compute conductances in the bosonization language?

$<I>=<\dot{\phi}>$. Then you can add a term $V(x)\partial_{x}\phi$ to
the lagrangian. This can be solved in the path integral by completing
the square, or using the equaitions of motion for
$\dot{\phi}=i[H_{int},\dot{\phi}]$.

$I_{e}=[H,\phi]$. What is $I_{q}$

The correct basis for discussion of the bosonic modes is one in which
the charged mode is seperated out. Kand Fisher and Polchinski showed
that under a renormalization gorup transfromation, The netural modes
will decouple from the charged mode. What makes charged mode special is
that the tunnelling proceses between modes can mix them all up, but what
can never be done is to create charge out of nothing, so any
hypothetical tunnelling equlibriation prcoess that would do this is
disallowed. On average (zooming out enough to blur short scale dynamics)
then the neutral modes do not interact with the charged mode and their
mixing together averages out to a blob.

The simple rule is that each bosonic mode counts for 1 and each majorana
mode counts for 1/2. Upstream or downstreamness determines the sign.

Particle Hole symmetry transforms the thermal hall conductance and the

The regular conductance goes $\nu\rightarrow1-\nu$. So too does the

Therefore a totally particle hole symmetric state has to have $\nu=1/2$
and $\nu_{T}=1/2$.

The simplest way of achieving this is one upstream bosonic mode and one
downstream majorana mode.

Along similar lines

One simple model for perofming particle hold conjuagtion .

Particle hole conjugation is achieved by carving out a state from the
filled landau level. In the fixed particle number wavefunction language,
one can take the vwaefunction for the filled landau level
($\psi=\prod^{N}(z-z)e^{-|z|^{2}}$) and integrate (antisymmetric
permutation sum of integrations if you prefer) M of the variables
against a trial wavefunction for example the $\nu=1/3$ wavefunction
$\psi=\prod^{M}(z-z)^{3}e^{-|z|^{2}}$, where $M<N$. This will leave a
relatively undisturbed ring of ordinary filling factor surrounding a
weirdo correlated state in the interior. The original filled state is a
uniform blob and so is the trial state. The trial state's blob is
smaller however.

In terms of edge thoery, this is the same as adding in a integer mode
and reversing the velocities of all the modes in the integrated state..

This model may be changed in its details but the resulting state should
be representative of some topological order which may not be the same as
the original state.

Explicitly, how does one achieve a particle hole symmettric state? One
adds in a new mode, which then must equilbriate to in some sense return
the old mode back and decouple one mode off somewhere.

The question is related to how does one take two counterpropgating modes
and combine them to be the inteirror of the quantum hall liquid, or how
does one construct the interior of the liquid out of the edges.

In some sense, the Interior is just a very large number of coupled edge
modes. We can imagine a model of strips of fluid. as tunnelling gets
stronger and stronger, the strips will merge into one big bulk.

One can also image gluing together patches of edge modes to make bulk
fluids on strange genus surfaces. An intrgiuing construct in regards to
topological degernacy of the gorund state.
