Classical viewpoint is that meissner effect rules all, that the magnetic
properties are the best.

London Equations are like a tweaked electromagnetism

Pippard

Landau Ginzburg

The cooper problem- Instability against attractive forces

The phonon interaction - attractive? porbably. like a sagging matress or
sagging string. Resonant response

The electrons carry their own insulating band gap - (analogies to
classical nonlinear oscillators becoming effectively in mathieu
equations. Phase locking? subtle perturbations can cause great effect
while minusle perutrbations do little depending on whether in amplitude
or phase direction)

What does coherence length mean - ODLRO - how far off diagonal does the
denisty matrix remain nonzero.

$\osu$

Microscopic thoery

Superconductors have non vanishing pair expectation values

Bogolibov de gennes is the real space (wannier esque) to the BCS k-space
picture. allows us to slowly vary just like wannier.

$\Delta(k)=<c(k)c(-k)>$

Complex energy gap. How do we reconcile these two descirptions of
$\Delta$

This implies they are not in number eigenstates

Anderson in Concepts of cnsensed matter does a prety ocnving job of
explaining why

Consider two separate chunks of superconductor.

Analogy is somewhat akin to grand canonical ensemble except now we're
talking baout a wavefunction

off diagoinal long range order - superconductor is "macroscopic quantum
state" akin to Bose einstein condesnate for ideal bose gas. But it isn't
ideal and it isn't bosonic so what does this mean? suggesiton = some
desnity matrix is essentailly easily factorable in analogy with pure
quantum state. Subtle

What does a "macroscopic" quantum state do? Light (especially laser
light) may perhaps be considered as such. You can get interference
patterns from far apart objects. The coherence length is large ($\rho$is
non zero off diagonals) and it acts as though all the photons are in the
same state.

number and phase - consider phtons first

SUperconductity as EM with mass gap

superconductor as flux insulator

$\Delta c^{\dagger}c^{\dagger}$ is the pair insertion operator it
injects a correlated pair into my electron system from the condensate.

$c^{\dagger}$ is a poartcile source. One could ocnsider adding such a
term into the hamiltonian to accoun for a leaky system. However one can
also use it in a self conistsnet field sense. There exists some kind of
wavefunction thing that injects partciles where they need to be. Hubbard
stratonocih. When you do it out. I believe such a method can be exact/
The self conistsency iterations become the born series.

Hartree fock and debye self ocnsistency. SOlve in presence of external
$\rho$ or $\rho(x,x')$ in case of exchaneg interaciton. The build up rho
from your solution and iterate.

Bogiubov version, constrctur $\Delta$ (which is related to the
condesnate maxcroscopic wavefunction) from your solution. then find new
particle solution.

Bogyubns makes sense as a superposition of particle and hole? An
electron plaedin a supercodnuctor will push away the condenstae, but
then it will over srtech itself leading to oscillation. This oscillation
should be quantized, the quantization of which is thre bolgiubon. The
bolguybon is the supercoducting fluid dressed electron. The weighting
might be more toward electron or hole. Higher ampltiude oscillation. The
ampltiude of the oscillation is the total charge in the inide. Amplitude
is quantized. s-Wave. Consider sticking a dipole in a superconductor.
Makes p-wave oscillation? and so on?

Inserting an electron "atom"
$\int\psi(r-r)\psi(R)c^{\dagger}c^{\dagger}$. For only two electron this
is 100 percent correct. It makes an eigenstate with energy less than 0
and is not a hartree fock product state. The is the second quantized
form of an anitisymmetrized $\psi(r-r)$ pair wavefunctions.

What is difference between supercoductor and disaccosiation of H atoms
$a_{H}a_{p}^{\dagger}a_{e}^{\dagger}$ term. where $a_{H}=<a_{p}a_{e}>?$
$a_{H}=<a_{p}^{\dagger}a_{e}^{\dagger}a_{p}a_{e}>?$ This is a naive
presciption that on qualitative level seems reaosnable but is probabyl
wrong. Physically, a\_h should not have a phase. t hsould just be
density of H atoms times a dissocation rate constant.no symmettry
requiresments between p and e coordinates. That is one major difference.
Maybe correct is $a_{p}^{\dagger}a_{e}$ even though I cannot turn one
electron into a proton this is effectively correct way to show
dissassocation. Will go into a many particle state. with effective H
denisty $<a_{p}^{\dagger}a_{e}>$. This is more in style of doing
effective potential hartree fock style and the dissassociating optnetial
using r
