Hi, I'm Philip Zucker, a Phd Candidate working in collaboration with
D.E. Feldman at Brown University.

Velocity is one of the most basic parameters that you want to measure on
the edge of the Quantum Hall Effect. The simplest approach is to launch
a pulse along the edge and measure the time is takes for the pulse to
propagate to a detecting contact. This approach and other similar time
resolved methods necessarily require excitations using high frequencies.
Another approach, which has been successful in the integer quantum hall
effect, is to use an interferometric measurement of the velocity through
two point contacts. The method presents experimental and theoretical
difficulties for extension to the fractional regime. In this paper we
propose an alternative method by which to measure edge velocity that
uses DC excitations through a single point contact.

First, let's describe the setup. A 2D electron gas is depleted
electrostatically underneath two metallic gates and a voltage bias is
applied between the upper and lower edge. We consider two geometries.
One in which the gate is thin in a small region near the tunneling
contact and another where the gate is fat near the tunneling contact.
The tunneling current across a contact is characterized by a universal
scaling exponent g.This exponent gives information about the topological
order in the bulk. If the gate becomes narrow enough, it will fail to
screen the coulomb interaction of excitations across the gate. These
interactions will raise g to a non-universal value.

The tunneling current falls into two regimes of behavior. For low enough
temperature and voltage $\ll\frac{\hbar v}{a}$, excitations are of too
large wavelength to resolve a region of size a, and thus the tunneling
exponent will resume its universal value. For temperatures and voltages
much higher than this value, the response will show the non-universal
effects of the coulomb interaction across the narrow region.

Thus in the laboratory, one can measure the tunneling conductance and
see an elbow in the I-V curves from which the velocity can be extracted.

We can examine the problem differently using the method of bosonization,
where we can treat an interacting fermion system as a noninteracting
bosonic one.

The tunneling is assumed to be weak and treatable as a perturbation on
the problem of charge flowing on a single edge with a finite narrow
interacting region.

When a charge flows into the interacting region, it will dress itself
with an image charge across the gate. Interestingly, even though the
edge remains chiral, these image charges must move counter to the
ordinary flow to stay attached to the original charge. A charge opposite
that of the image charge must be ejected to preserve charge on the
opposite side of the gate. The dressed charge may then flow unscattered
with a renormalized velocity until it must exit the narrow region again.
The image charge cannot flow out of the region to the left, because the
external region is completely chiral. Therefore the image charge must be
totally reflected and dress itself with it's own image charge. This
process is repeated indefinitely.

This physical process can be written explicitly as an iterative solution
of the Heisenberg equations of motion for the bosonic field operators,
in turn giving an expression for the correlation functions required to
calculate the tunneling current.

This calculation confirms the general picture of two regimes of behavior
explained earlier. An interesting occurrence is the appearance of
oscillations in the I-V curve. These oscillations correspond to
tunneling resonances of nearly bound states formed inside the narrow
region by the bouncing charge.

In conclusion, we propose a method to find the edge mode velocity in the
QHE from DC transport through a single QPC.
