Hi, I'm Philip Zucker, a Phd Candidate working in collaboration with
D.E. Feldman at Brown University.

The quantum hall effect is a fascinating and promising arena of
condensed matter physics. It is the fertile ground from which
topological matter has grown.

The quantum hall edge has long been a subject of study due to the bulk
edge correspondence. Information about the edge

Velocity is one of the most basic parameters that you want to measure of
the quantum Hall edge, but nevertheless rather difficult to measure in a
conclusive way. The simplest approach is to launch a pulse along the
edge and measure the time is takes for the pulse to propagate to a
detecting contact. This approach and other similar time resolved methods
necessarily require excitations using high frequencies. Another approach
is to use an interferometric measurement of the velocity through two
point contacts. This method presents experimental and theoretical
difficulties. In this paper we propose an alternative method by which to
measure edge velocity that uses DC excitations through a single point
contact.

We consider two geometries of tunnelling contacts. One in which the gate
is thin in a small region near the tunneling contact and another where
the gate is fat near the tunneling contact. When the gate becomes narrow
enough, it will fail to screen the coulomb interaction of excitations
across the gate.

When a charge flows into the interacting region, it will dress itself
with an image charge across the gate. A charge opposite that of the
image charge must be ejected to preserve charge on the opposite side of
the gate. Interestingly, even though the edge remains chiral, these
image charges must move counter to the ordinary flow to stay attached to
the original charge.

When the charge reaches the tunnelling contact, it may tunnel into the
lower edge or continue.

The dressed charge may then flow with a renormalized velocity until it
must exit the narrow region again. The image charge cannot flow out of
the region to the left, because the external region is completely
chiral. Therefore the image charge must be totally reflected and dress
itself with it's own image charge. This bouncing is repeated
indefinitely.

The tunneling current falls into two regimes of behavior. For low enough
temperature and voltage excitations are of too large wavelength to
resolve a region of size a, and thus the tunneling exponent will resume
its universal value. For temperatures and voltages much higher than this
value, the response will show the non-universal effects of the coulomb
interaction across the narrow region.

Thus in the laboratory, one can measure the tunneling conductance and
see an elbow in the I-V curves from which the velocity can be extracted.

An interesting occurrence is the appearance of oscillations in the I-V
curve. These oscillations correspond to tunneling resonances of nearly
bound states formed inside the narrow region by the bouncing charge.

In conclusion, we propose a method to find the edge mode velocity in the
QHE from DC transport through a single QPC.
