### Topological Order

Topological order is

Toplogical order is a phase that cannot be characterized by an order
parameter.

I'm not sure I agree. Girivin's off-diagnonal long range order

By a local order parameter. What do I mean by local?

Emergence of a gauge field whose behavior is dominated in the action by
a topological term. Toploigcal terms, such (are there others? ) as the
Chern-Simons term.

Common features of topooligcal orders are the emergence of
quasiparticles with fracitonal and non ableian statistics, sepearation
of charge and spin, fractional charges, dependance of ground state
degeneracy on the genus of the surface, robust predictions.

Recent progress

### Fractional Quantum Hall effect

The 5/2 and 12/5 filling factor

Construction schemes include the Haldane-Halperin hierarchy \[2\] and
the composite fermion picture \[3\].

Variational Wavefunctions can be contructed from the correlators of
conformal field theories.

Bulk-Boundary Correspondance

The promise of discovering a physical realization of non-abelian
statistics remains tantalizing.

The Fractional Quantum hall Effect is an effect that cannot be

Is not described by

However, the composite fermions are particles that carry vortices with
them. This is very similar to how in a more ordinary metal

### Son

In a recent work, Son suggested a novel solution to some of the
confusing properties of the free composite fermion sea picture at
$\nu=1/2$. He suggests that the composite fermions are in fact dirac
fermions, possessing a nonzero berry phase as they traverse the Fermi
surface. He also mentions the PH-pfaffian state as a newly possible
$l=0$ pairing state origininating from this sea.

### PH-Pfaffian

In a recent paper \[our paper\], it was shown that the weight of current
experimental evidence points to this PH-Pfaffian state as being the most
likely candidate to explain the mystery of the $\nu=5/2$ filling factor.
A more concrete picture of the nature of the edge and bulk and
experimental conseqeuences of this state were expounded.

This picture is strongly related to the picture of the more familiar
Pfaffian state with a simple change, the nonabelian parts of the theory
flow upstream. This results in a new thoery in which the composite
fermions have paired into a different angular momentum state.

The PH-pfaffian is constrained by the need to produce the necessary
particle hole symmetric hall electric and hall thermal condcutance. This
immediately suggests an upstream bosonic mode to achieve the electric
conductance and a downstream majorana mode to cancel half the thermal
conductance of the bosonic mode.

However, one finds that the relation of the PH-Pfaffian to the Pfaffian
state is quite simple, suggesting another road. One simply reverses the
chiralty of the non-abelian fields producing the theory. Such a simple
procedure can be extended to states other than the Pfaffian, suggesting
the possibility and construction for further states. The procedure is
not guaranteed to work and must be verified as producing a consistent
theory.

In particular, let us consider the $Z_{3}$ parafermion theory that is a
candidate explanation for the $\nu=12/5$ filling factor.

### The Shift and angular momentum

The shift is defined by the relation connecting electron number and flux
quanta

$N_{\phi}+S=\nu^{-1}N_{e}$

The geometrical curvature contributes a Berry phase factor due to the
oribtal spin of the electrons. The shift results from geometrical
curvature acting in some ways as an additional magnetic flux distributed
throughout a curved surface, the totality of the flux dependant only on
the genus of the surface thanks to the Gauss-Bonnet thoerem.
